U.K. Chancellor Philip Hammond U.K. Chancellor Philip Hammond will urge the Tory leadership contenders to consider holding a general election or second referendum in order to break the Brexit impasse, rather than an economically damaging no-deal exit from the European Union. A no-deal exit would blow a hole in the public finances, wiping out the Treasury’s 26.6 billion-pound ($33.6 billion) headroom, the Chancellor is expected to say in his annual Mansion House speech in the City of London on Thursday evening. Instead, he’ll urge front-runner Boris Johnson as well as Jeremy Hunt, Michael Gove and Sajid Javid, to come up with a “Plan B” if they can’t break the Brexit impasse in the U.K. Parliament or convince the European Union to renegotiate the existing Brexit deal. “If the new Prime Minister cannot end the deadlock in Parliament, then he will have to explore other democratic mechanisms to break the impasse,” Hammond will say. “Because if he fails, his job will be on the line – and so, too, will the jobs and prosperity of millions of our fellow citizens.” Hammond’s reference to “democratic mechanisms” are a clear signal that he thinks the next leader will need to go back to the people to find a way forward. He’s previously said he thinks a second referendum is a viable option. Johnson, who on Wednesday bolstered his lead in the contest, has said he would pursue a no-deal Brexit if he can’t strip out the controversial Irish backstop from the existing deal by Oct. 31. “There is a choice: either we leave with No Deal or we preserve our future fiscal space – we cannot do both,” Hammond will say, according to a trail of his speech released by the Treasury. Analysis by Bloomberg Economics on Wednesday found a no-deal Brexit would deliver a 30 billion-pound hit to the public finances by 2023-24. That would soak up the vast majority of headroom and make it harder for Johnson to deliver on his promised tax cuts, according to economist Dan Hanson. Read More: If Boris Johnson Wins, Beware the Fiscal Risks The remaining three candidates -- Hunt, Javid and Gove -- all say they’d be reluctant to pursue a no-deal Brexit and want to renegotiate the existing deal. But the European Union is very unlikely to renegotiate the existing deal or strip out the backstop, Hammond will say. “If your Plan A is undeliverable, not having a Plan B is like not having a plan at all.” Beyond the economic impact of such an impasse, Hammond will warn that it could also lead to a general election and Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn becoming prime minister. Rory Stewart, the only candidate to reject a no-deal Brexit was eliminated from the contest Wednesday. With Johnson’s place in the final virtually guaranteed, Hunt, Javid and Gove will on Thursday battle for the other spot in two rounds of voting, “The candidates need realistic strategies for taking the U.K. economy out of the holding pattern in which it has been stuck for the last nine months and landing it safely on the runway marked “prosperity Brexit,” Hammond will say. He’ll also promise to fight to protect the United Kingdom, after a YouGov survey this week found a majority of Tory party members would still back Brexit even if it meant Scotland or Northern Ireland leaving the U.K. “I will not concede the very ground we stand on. I will fight, and fight again, to remake the case for pragmatism and, yes, for compromise in our politics –- to ensure an outcome that protects the Union and the prosperity of the United Kingdom.”