Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. U.S. equity futures were in a holding pattern on Wednesday while Treasuries slipped as investors prepared for the latest Federal Reserve meeting to conclude, with anticipation growing that policy makers will signal a readiness to lower rates. Contracts for the three main U.S. stock gauges drifted alongside the dollar, while the Stoxx Europe 600 was also little changed. Earlier shares in Asia rallied, tracking the Tuesday gains on Wall Street sparked by a President Donald Trump tweet that he will sit down with Chinese President Xi Jinping at the G-20 summit next week. The yield on 10-year Treasuries pared some of the drop from a day earlier, while that of Japan’s benchmark hit a three-year low. The pound gained for a second day. As many of the world’s biggest central banks signal a shift to easier policy, traders are weighing that against trade war fears and signs of cooling global growth. Trump said Tuesday that he had a “very good” phone conversation with Xi. The two leaders will hold an “extended meeting” at the G-20 summit on June 28-29 in Osaka and “our respective teams will begin talks prior to our meeting,” Trump said on Twitter. “At this stage, we are not getting as optimistic as maybe the stock market is about the headlines overnight,” Laura Fitzsimmons, executive director for rates and FX sales at JPMorgan Chase & Co., told Bloomberg TV in Sydney about the developments on trade. “Stock markets can run for a little bit longer but as we get closer to the event itself the risk of disappointment will again appear.” Elsewhere, West Texas crude dropped even as OPEC and its allies agreed to hold the next meeting to discuss oil-output cuts on July 1-2, resolving a monthlong dispute that highlighted divisions within the group. The Turkish lira fell on a report the Trump administration is weighing new sanctions on the country over its purchases of the Russian S-400 missile-defense system. Here are some key events coming up: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Juliette Saly, and Adam Haigh