Omar al-Bashir Photographer: Ashraf Shazly/AFP Photographer: Ashraf Shazly/AFP Sudan’s President Omar al-Bashir brutally crushed dissent during the three decades he ruled the North African nation. But his overthrow in April didn’t usher in peace. Instead, the military council that replaced him was accused of some of the worst-ever violence in the capital, Khartoum. A crackdown in early June left more than 100 protesters dead after talks between the military and opposition on forming a civilian government stalled. Then, in early July, the two sides struck a power-sharing deal that offers the hope of an end to the violence. The coup against Bashir on April 11 followed four months of nationwide protests over soaring prices for food, medicine, fuel and transportation in which scores of people died. When the 75-year-old ruler, who was indicted by the International Criminal Court for alleged war crimes and genocide in the western region of Darfur, refused to step down, some of his erstwhile allies from the military and security forces pushed him out. They promised to hand over power to civilians within two years, but protesters -- skeptical that a group comprising Bashir’s old guard would deliver democracy -- kept up demonstrations to demand an immediate transition. A general strike that began June 9 brought much of Khartoum to a standstill. Few nations mourned the fall of Bashir, who seized power in 1989 and spearheaded an Islamist revolution that for a time in the 1990s turned Sudan into a haven for terrorists such as Osama bin Laden. The African Union and Ethiopia, Sudan’s neighbor, mediated between the military and pro-democracy groups on how to constitute a transitional government. Regional heavyweights Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates made no secret of their desire for a smooth transition to avoid a repeat of the upheaval that rocked the Arab world in 2011. In late April, they extended a lifeline to Sudan’s new rulers by pledging $3 billion in aid. A presidential council will be formed with the role of chairman rotating between the military and civilians. The accord also provides for the establishment of a civilian council of ministers and an independent national investigation committee to probe the killing of protesters. The military council is headed by Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, a veteran lieutenant general, but he’s been overshadowed by his deputy Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the leader of the Rapid Support Forces, a notorious militia with roots in the Janjaweed group that terrorized Darfur. The RSF was behind the assault on protesters and is the main armed presence on Khartoum’s streets. As part of the power-sharing deal, more than 230 rebels were freed from prison. Sudan was engulfed in civil war for two decades before a 2005 peace deal that partitioned the country six years later. South Sudan took control over three-quarters of the oil fields, stripping the north of a large chunk of its revenue and foreign exchange. Lower crude prices have further dented income from what’s left of Sudan’s output. The government has tried to diversify the economy by encouraging mining, but it remains a fledgling industry, and the bulk of the country’s 40 million people depend on subsistence agriculture. Sudan is among the world’s poorest nations, ranking 167th out of 189 countries on the UN Development Program’s human development index. Beyond humanitarian concerns, there are trade issues involved. Prior to the south’s succession, Sudan ranked as sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest oil exporter, and it still produced 72,000 barrels of oil a day in 2017. It also serves as a conduit for all crude produced in the south. Sudan’s government has signed an accord with Russia’s Rosneft Oil Co. and Rosgeologiya OAO to build a 200,000-barrel-a-day refinery at Port Sudan on the Red Sea. The country is also the world’s biggest exporter of gum arabic, a sap that’s extracted from acacia trees and used in sodas and pharmaceuticals.