President Donald Trump became the first sitting American leader to set foot in North Korea, briefly crossing the border in the Demilitarized Zone after shaking hands with Kim Jong Un. Trump on Saturday invited Kim via Twitter to see him in the zone separating North Korea and South Korea, and he agreed. The U.S. president took a short walk over the demarcation line on Sunday before crossing back into South Korea along with Kim for a meeting. Trump and Kim have maintained friendly relations despite failing to agree on a path forward on a deal that would ease sanctions in return for steps toward eliminating North Korea’s nuclear threat. Kim walks toward Trump at the DMZ. They met in the Joint Security Area (JSA) of Panmunjom on June 30. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images Trump steps into the northern side of the Military Demarcation Line. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images Kim shakes hands with Trump north of the Military Demarcation Line. Trump took a short walk into North Korea before crossing back into South Korea. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images Trump and Kim stand north of the Military Demarcation Line. Photographer: Susan Walsh/AP Trump speaks with Kim as they stand north of the Military Demarcation Line. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images Kim and Trump walk over the Military Demarcation Line into South Korea. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images Kim speaks with Trump as they walk to a meeting on the south side of the Military Demarcation Line. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images Trump and Kim shake hands on the south side of the Military Demarcation Line. Photographer: Susan Walsh/AP Kim greets South Korea's President Moon Jae-in as Trump looks on. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images Trump speaks with Kim during a meeting at Freedom House on the South Korean side of the Joint Security Area. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images Trump and Kim shake hands during a meeting at Freedom House. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images Kim, Trump and Moon leave Freedom House following a meeting. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images