Boris Johnson. Photographer: Niklas Halle’n/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Niklas Halle’n/AFP via Getty Images Follow @Brexit, sign up to our Brexit Bulletin, and tell us your Brexit story. Boris Johnson is fighting his campaign to become U.K. prime minister largely behind closed doors, wooing as many 16 Conservative members of Parliament a day in a borrowed office. As supporters emerge from their private chats, each has a different account of what the front-runner says. One afternoon this week in Westminster, Johnson held separate meetings with two MPs -- one a committed Brexiteer, the other a pro-European moderate. The first came away convinced that Johnson will take the U.K. out of the European Union on Oct. 31 -- even if that means leaving without a deal. Minutes later, the other emerged saying privately he was reassured the candidate would secure changes to the existing deal and deliver an orderly exit. But even as he was saying this, downstairs in Parliament’s tree-lined atrium a third MP was asserting that Johnson had committed to ripping up the deal altogether. Johnson’s critics accuse him of misleading people -- he has twice been fired for dishonesty. But there’s growing evidence, based on conversations with multiple people who are being courted by him, that members of Parliament are complicit in his strategy, taking away from their chats the message they want to hear. That’s because many of them are as worried about finding a leader who can win the next election as the kind of Brexit he might seek. Read more: Johnson’s Backers Eye Early U.K. Election, Despite Brexit Crisis Three years after the referendum in which Johnson played a pivotal role, the next prime minister will have to define what Brexit will mean. But the front-runner, who has avoided public scrutiny more than other candidates, hasn’t spelled out how he would react if the EU rejects his bid to renegotiate the deal it struck with Theresa May -- as it has repeatedly said it will. Options include pursuing a no-deal exit, or calling an election. Investors are skittish about both. One MP who was an early supporter of Johnson conceded that his colleagues simply aren’t posing forensic questions about Brexit. Asked in private whether Johnson had committed to taking Britain out of the bloc on Oct. 31, another pro-Brexit lawmaker who’s being wooed by the front-runner, was vague: “Well, that’s my impression.” Pressed further, he said: “I think he’s said it, hasn’t he? I think he has.” Johnson’s spokesman declined to comment. One of those responsible for marshaling support for him in Parliament said the candidate was saying the same thing about Brexit to every MP. It’s possible that they take different meanings from the words, he said, declining to be named discussing private conversations. “When he becomes leader he will have to make his mind up what to do,” Ken Clarke, a pro-EU Tory and former chancellor of the exchequer, said in an interview. “He’s avoided committing himself to hard and fast positions, which is probably one of the wiser things he can do.” Read More: His Critics Say He Lies, But Tories Want to Trust Boris Johnson A televised debate on Tuesday night provided another example of Johnson’s ability to play to two crowds. He said Britain “must” leave on Oct. 31, but then declined to “guarantee” an exit on that date, saying instead it was a “feasible” deadline. To many, that sounded like a softening of his earlier pledge to take Britain out with or without a deal. He reassured an anxious viewer that he would “‘make sure” Britain leaves on “terms that protect the U.K.” But then -- in a gesture to his Brexit hardliners -- he referenced an arcane bit of international trade law that they regard as an article of faith. A senior member of pro-Brexit caucus known as the European Research Group said they are confident that Johnson would stick to the Oct. 31 deadline, and he had assured them Britain would leave by that date, on no-deal terms if necessary. If he doesn’t, they have a threat: What happened to May would happen to him, only faster.