Ihssane Mounir, chief of commercial sales at Boeing Co., speaks during a media briefing at the 53rd International Paris Air Show in Paris Boeing Co. turned in its lowest order tally at a European air show since 2016, falling behind rival Airbus SE in Paris after being hobbled by the grounding of its most popular jet. The U.S. manufacturer dedicated its efforts at the event to bolstering confidence in the 737 Max, a single-aisle workhorse whose future has been clouded by two fatal crashes. Executives spent the event reassuring customers and suppliers that the plane is still at the center of its plans, despite being idled in March after the second disaster. Airbus topped  Boeing in the battle for orders at the Paris Air Show Sources: the companies NOTE: Excludes options, purchase rights and leased aircraft At Boeing’s closing press conference Thursday, sales chief Ihssane Mounir kept with the theme, promising to return the Max to the skies “very soon.” He acknowledged that the company had disrupted various airlines’ operations, saying this year’s event wasn’t typical. Boeing is in talks with several customers on potential Max sales, he said at the Le Bourget airfield outside of the French capital. Boeing’s order total stood at $33.9 billion for the biennial Paris event, which alternates with a U.K. show in Farnborough that together serve as global showcases for the aerospace industry. Airbus, which reported orders for 373 planes as of Thursday afternoon and said more were coming, got $43.6 billion. For Chicago-based Boeing, it was the smallest for either of the shows in three years -- and would have been much worse without a surprise $24 billion commitment for the 737 Max from British Airways owner IAG SA. The letter of intent for 200 planes injected optimism into a Boeing campaign that had looked increasingly bleak as regulators worldwide study proposals to make the plane safer. Still, Boeing’s showing in Paris ends two years of dominance over Airbus. The European planemaker, which reports its final numbers later on Thursday, has pushed the newest version of its Max competitor, the longer-range A321XLR, while scoring deals for its smaller A220 jet and wide-body A330 family.