Photographer: Johannes Eisele/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Johannes Eisele/AFP via Getty Images U.S. equity-index futures surged with the yuan, while the yen slumped after the American and Chinese presidents reached a truce in the trade war and agreed to resume talks. Futures on the S&P 500 climbed 1% and China’s offshore yuan was up 0.6% against the dollar in early trading Monday. The deal between Presidents Xi Jinping and Donald Trump validated investor hopes after mixed signals heading into Saturday’s meeting. Treasury futures declined. Oil rose as Russia struck a deal with Saudi Arabia to extend the OPEC+ agreement at current production levels for the rest of this year and potentially into early 2020. Though there’s a lack of detail over the next steps for U.S.-China talks, many were surprised by Trump’s decision to allow Huawei Technologies Co. to buy some products from U.S. suppliers -- a move that may become clearer when the Commerce Department meets this week. Existing tariffs will be maintained, and Trump said after the G-20 meeting that the course of the trade negotiations will determine if more or less duties are needed. Fresh optimism on the trade front may help cushion disappointing economic data. China’s purchasing manager index showed manufacturing continued to deteriorate in June. Monday brings the U.S. version of that gauge. “After the markets were stuck in trade war limbo for the better part of two months, investors will breathe a massive, but exhausted, sigh of relief that both the U.S. and China opted to push the reset button and restart trade negotiations,” said Stephen Innes, managing partner at Vanguard Markets Ltd. Many investors are expecting a reprieve for tech shares in Asia later this morning. Samsung Electronics Co. -- the world’s biggest chipmaker -- and SK Hynix Inc., which are suppliers to both Huawei and U.S. companies, may rise Monday and in turn push up South Korea’s Kospi index. Hong Kong markets are closed Monday for a holiday. “While most expected that both sides will calm down to agree to further discussion,” lifting the ban on Huawei was a surprise, said Hao Hong, a strategist at Bocom International in Hong Kong. “Lifting the ban for now shows progress in the negotiation and a sincerity to discuss further.” Read more on the developments over the weekend and the impact on markets: Trump Says U.S. ‘Winning’ Trade War After Reviving China TalksChina Traders Gear Up for Relief Rally, Though Caution PrevailsFed Cut Bets Won’t Vanish Just Because Trump and Xi Played Nice Here are some key events coming up: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Lilian Karunungan, Abhishek Vishnoi, and Cormac Mullen