Boris Johnson has put some flesh on the bones of his Brexit plan -- setting out a plan A, B and C for taking Britain out of the European Union on Oct. 31. Plan A and B have already been rejected by the bloc. Plan C is no-deal, which members of his own party are plotting to prevent. Boris Johnson has added some detail to his Brexit plans in a series of interviews. He wants to negotiate a new divorce deal with the EU -- without the controversial Irish backstop -- and to get it done by Oct. 31. If that’s not possible -- as the EU has repeatedly said it isn’t -- then Johnson would seek a standstill agreement with the EU, on the basis of Article 24 of the GATT. He told LBC earlier it would be “very bizarre” if the bloc imposed tariffs on U.K. goods, and said that a standstill agreement was “the way forward.” The EU has already said that it won’t contemplate mini agreements to soften the blow of a hard exit, or what some call a managed no-deal. Its position is clear -- it’s either the divorce accord, including the Irish backstop and the financial settlement, or the chaos of no-deal. The World Trade Organization has also said that Article 24 wouldn’t work. If the first two plans don’t work, then Johnson said the country must prepare for a hard split -- his plan C. But a majority of members of Parliament oppose crashing out without an agreement, and members of Johnson’s party are figuring out ways to stop the next prime minister pursuing such a policy. Johnson told the BBC on night that despite this, he thought he could push no-deal through the House of Commons. He promised the U.K. would leave on Oct. 31. "Do or die. Come what may," he told Talk Radio. Read more: Johnson’s Backers Eye Early U.K. Election, Despite Brexit Crisis Johnson has refused to engage with the question of how photos of him with his girlfriend Carrie Symonds, apparently showing them reconciled after their row in the early hours of Friday morning, were released to the press. Daily Mail front page. A spokesman said that the photos was nothing to do with the campaign, but refused to discuss their provenance. The Daily Mail, which first reported them on Monday, said they had been taken on Sunday, and cited a friend of the couple. But Johnson was challenged on LBC about whether the pictures were as recent as that – his haircut seems to be different from some angles in the photos. “It’s not a state secret, it just happens to not be something I want to get into,’’ Johnson told LBC. “Why should I?’’ Johnson said he doesn’t just want to tweak the Brexit deal but wants a new agreement. “It’s got to be a change to the Withdrawal Agreement. I mean, more than a change. It’s got to be a new Withdrawal Agreement,” he told Talk Radio. He ruled out delaying Brexit again beyond Oct. 31, and raised the prospect of a scaled down agreement with the EU as a way of avoiding disruption to trade if a full divorce deal can’t be reached. In his interview with LBC, Johnson denied reports that he’s being advised by Steve Bannon, calling the speculation “complete codswallop.” The pair met when Johnson was foreign secretary and Bannon was in the White House, and exchanged texts when Johnson declined a meeting with Bannon during President Donald Trump’s U.K. visit last year, he said. Critics are trying to create an “alt-right’ conspiracy, Johnson said. Boris Johnson leaves following a radio interview in London on June 25. “Anybody who looks at my record knows that I am a progressive, modern Conservative, that I believe passionately in improving the lot of everybody in society,’ Johnson said. Boris Johnson revised his earlier comments that an arcane bit of trade law could provide a solution in the event of a no-deal Brexit, but said he’s still hopeful that in the event of a hard exit some kind of agreement with the bloc could be reached to ease the blow. Johnson had been criticized for saying that article 24 of the GATT provided a way of keeping trade undisrupted in the event of no-deal. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney was among those who disputed it. Johnson told LBC radio that while Carney was right, the measure still offered a “hopeful prospect” and was “the way forward.” He said there was scope for the U.K. and EU to come to an agreement in the event of no-deal. “It would be very bizarre if the EU should decide on their own to impose tariffs on goods coming from the U.K.,” he said. The EU has repeatedly said that it won’t engage in mini-deals if the withdrawal agreement isn’t ratified. That means tariffs would be imposed, as well as border checks. Read More: Why Article 24 of the GATT Doesn’t Help in a No-Deal Exit Johnson said he would guarantee the rights of EU citizens in U.K. law “immediately” if he became prime minister. In an interview with LBC, he also reiterated a pledge to take the U.K. out of the bloc on Oct. 31. A so-called hard Brexit leading to border friction and production delays could cost the U.K.’s auto industry 50,000 pounds ($64,000) a minute, according to report by the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders. The SMMT said the end of frictionless trade could bring crippling disruption to the industry’s just-in-time operating model, and that securing a Brexit deal must be the next prime minister’s top priority. The right deal, combined with an auto-friendly trade strategy, could deliver a 20 billion-pound boost to the economy, it said. During her media round in support of leadership candidate Jeremy Hunt, Work and Pensions Secretary Amber Rudd said that while she appreciates Boris Johnson’s “enthusiasm and his confident positivity,” he was still being vague on his plans for Brexit. “I think Boris needs to go further about what he is doing,” she told the BBC on Tuesday. “Let’s not pretend this is simple,” she said of the negotiations with the European Union. While Johnson might see himself as an “absolutist” on leaving the bloc on Oct. 31 -- without necessarily knowing what comes next -- Rudd said Hunt has the “personality” to get a “better hearing” from the bloc to forge a compromise. Boris Johnson’s proposal to raise the thresholds for income tax and social security contributions would cost 20 billion pounds a year, according to the Institute for Fiscal Studies. The measures would mainly benefit higher earners, according to its report. Communities Secretary James Brokenshire, who backs Johnson, told Sky News on Tuesday that the Treasury has “indicated there is fiscal headroom of around 26 billion pounds” for tax cuts, though he also said the IFS analysis “is quite premature because Boris hasn’t set out his tax plans yet.” Corbyn Signals Support for Second Referendum: Brexit UpdateJohnson and Hunt Share Views, Not Style on U.K. Foreign PolicyWhat to Expect From the Next Season of Brexit Saga: QuickTake