Emerging-markets are set to shift their focus to the outlook for global growth after a trade truce between the U.S. and China alleviated the immediate risk of a cold war between the two nations. Investors welcomed President Donald Trump’s decision to put on hold new tariffs on Chinese goods and allow U.S. supplier to sell some products to Huawei Technologies Co., but it’s still unclear whether Beijing and Washington can overcome their differences. While the easing of tensions is positive for global growth and will reduce some of the urgency in central banks’ swing back to easing policy, existing tariffs and continued uncertainty will remain a drag, according to Bloomberg Economics. “Given the meeting was light on details, heavy on Trump optimism, coupled with the Chinese comments being reserved and benign, EM currencies are unlikely benefit from the new truce,” Jason Daw, the head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale in Singapore, wrote in a report. “A substantial risk premium will remain in market pricing related to two negative growth scenarios: first, a long-term stalemate or, second, a no-deal outcome. From a tactical perspective, there is more likely to be a short-term pop higher” in the dollar versus Asian currencies, he said. Data on Sunday showed the outlook for China’s manufacturing sector continued to deteriorate in June, highlighting the pressure from tariffs the U.S. imposed the previous month on Chinese goods. A slew of manufacturing data, including those from the trade-dependent economies of South Korea and Taiwan, will be keenly watched by investors. Emerging-market currencies and stocks jumped last month by the most since January, while local-currency bonds staged their best performance in more than three years following a dovish turn by the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. The U.S. jobs report on Friday will likely give clues on whether the Fed will cut rates on July 31 for the first time in more than a decade. Read more: Investors See Tariff Truce Giving Risk Assets Temporary Reprieve “Aside from trade-war news flow, the primary drivers of EM currencies has been growth and liquidity,” said Daw. “Low rates could prevent meaningful currency weakness for a while longer, but if the delta on economic activity remains negative, growth should ultimately win out in the liquidity-growth tug-of-war.” — With assistance by Tomoko Yamazaki, Alec McCabe, Philip Sanders, and Justin Villamil