Iran said it shot down a U.S. drone near the entrance to the Persian Gulf, escalating tensions in a region that’s been on the brink of a military confrontation for weeks. Oil prices surged. “We will defend Iran’s airspace and maritime boundaries with all our might,” Ali Shamkhani, secretary for the Supreme National Security Council, was quoted as saying by state-run Iranian Students’ News Agency. “It doesn’t matter which country’s aircraft cross our airspace.” Iranian media described it as a spy drone and said it was hit inside Iranian airspace near Kuh Mobarak, on Iran’s southern coast. The U.S. disputed the account. Lt . Col. Earl Brown from the U.S. Central Command said U.S. aircraft were flying in international airspace only. Citing an unidentified U.S. official, the Associated Press reported that a U.S. Navy high-altitude drone was shot down by an Iranian surface-to-air missile over the Strait of Hormuz, an oil shipment chokepoint. Bill Urban, spokesman for U.S. Central Command, said Iranian reports that the aircraft was over Iran are false. “This was an unprovoked attack on a U.S. surveillance asset in international airspace,” he said in a statement. A U.S. Navy high altitude drone. The downing of the drone fanned fears that a military clash between the U.S. and Iran is just a matter of time, stoking tension throughout the Gulf, which supplies one-third of the world’s oil. The region has been volatile since the U.S. tightened sanctions on Iranian oil sales in early May, sent military reinforcements to the region and provoked an increasingly squeezed Iranian government to pull back on some of its commitments under the 2015 deal that was meant to prevent it from developing a nuclear bomb. Washington quit the accord a year ago and reimposed sanctions to try to force Iran to rein back regional proxy militias and its weapons programs. Frictions flared further last week after an attack on two oil tankers outside the entrance to the Gulf. The U.S. blamed Iran, which has denied involvement. Iran on Monday warned European nations that it would breach the multilateral nuclear accord, which had traded some sanctions relief for limits on Tehran’s nuclear program, as soon as June 27 unless they find a way to circumvent U.S. penalties. “We are seeing an escalation and the frequency of attacks is concerning even though they are still mostly minor,’’ said Renad Mansour, a research fellow in the Middle East and North Africa program at Chatham House. “People across the region are starting to make preparation for the possibility of a trigger coming from somewhere.’’ A week after an attack on two oil tankers, Iran has downed a U.S. drone in the area Source: Marine Traffic  Oil rose after the report, with futures climbing as much as 3.3% in New York. Attacks on regional oil infrastructure since mid-May have helped whipsaw oil prices. A measure of price volatility for the benchmark U.S. crude grade reached a five-month high on Monday, pulled between the threat of disrupted supply and mounting concern that trade wars will weaken demand. The drone downing followed a missile strike by Iranian-backed Yemeni rebels overnight on Saudi Arabia. President Donald Trump was briefed on that incident, and was “closely monitoring the situation,” White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said on Wednesday night. She did not provide further details, but a news agency operated by Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen said that they had hit a power station in Jazan, on the southwestern coast of Saudi Arabia, with a cruise missile. The official Saudi Press Agency later said that a projectile fired from Yemen had fallen near a desalination plant causing no damage or casualties. Saudi Aramco said all of its facilities are “fully operational”. The Houthis have repeatedly attacked Saudi targets using drones and rockets since a Saudi-led military coalition backed by the U.S. entered the Yemeni civil war in 2015 on the side of President Abd Rabbuh Mansur Hadi. Jazan province, which borders Yemen, has proven to be an easy target, in closer range than the capital and other major cities further inside the oil-exporting kingdom. Earlier: Senate to Vote on Blocking Saudi Arms Sale in Rebuke to Trump — With assistance by Golnar Motevalli, Verity Ratcliffe, and Anthony Dipaola