Emmanuel Macron talks with Donald Tusk and Xavier Bettel on June 21. Photographer: Kenzo Tribouillard/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Kenzo Tribouillard/AFP via Getty Images Follow @Brexit, sign up to our Brexit Bulletin, and tell us your Brexit story. European Union leaders are grappling with questions over how a new British leader will affect Brexit, but the one thing they agree on is that the divorce accord will not be reopened. Must Read: EU Plots Response to Boris Johnson Becoming U.K. Prime Minister A new British prime minister might make Brexit more "exciting," European Council President Donald Tusk said. But the front-runner Boris Johnson’s hopes of overhauling the terms of the divorce will be dashed, because the European Union will not reopen the negotiations. "Maybe the process of Brexit will be even more exciting than before because of some personnel decisions in London," Tusk told a press conference at the end of the leaders’ summit in Brussels. "But nothing has changed when it comes to our position." Tusk said the EU was waiting for decisions in Britain and new proposals from the next British leader. He distanced himself from warnings on Thursday from Irish premier Leo Varadkar, who said the EU was fast running out of patience with the U.K. and that there was hostility to another delay to the scheduled exit day. Tusk said the EU had to be patient. Slovak Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini said the EU would probably delay Brexit again if the U.K. asked for an extension. "If they will ask us to extend, probably we will do that because it is always better for the U.K. to stay in the EU than not," he said after the summit. He hinted at concerns about May’s successor. Front-runner Boris Johnson is vying with Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt in a run-off ballot of party members. "I would like not to comment on his signals that he is sending toward the European Union but I think it could be more difficult than it is now," he said. EU leaders agreed unanimously that there will be no renegotiation of the Brexit deal, EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters. Donald Tusk, the president of the EU Council, said the bloc is looking forward to working with the new prime minister of the U.K. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney said the U.K. can’t avoid tariffs with the European Union if it leaves the bloc without an agreement, refuting a position defended by Boris Johnson. During Tuesday’s televised Conservative leadership debate, Johnson referenced an idea that’s popular among ardent Brexiteers -- that Article 24 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the precursor agreement to the World Trade Organization, offers a way to avoid tariffs and border restrictions in the event of a no-deal Brexit. Mark Carney on June 20. “There will be no tariffs, there will be no quotas because what we want to do is to get a standstill in our current arrangements under GATT 24, or whatever it happens to be, until such a time as we have negotiated” a free-trade agreement, Johnson said. But the idea is widely disputed; the U.K.’s pro-Brexit International Trade Secretary Liam Fox has said the article wouldn’t apply in Britain’s case because it requires, at the very least, the EU to agree to it. Any WTO member could also object to such an arrangement and demand it be modified. “We should be clear that not having an agreement with the European Union means that there are tariffs, automatically,” Carney told BBC Radio on Friday. “The Europeans have to apply the same rules to us as they apply to everyone else.” If You’re Wondering How Hard a ‘Hard Brexit’ Could Be: QuickTake As the Tory candidates pledge to renegotiate the controversial measure in the Brexit deal known as the Irish backstop, Ireland is standing firm -- and supported by the rest of the bloc. Ireland’s Europe Minister Helen McEntee made clear her country won’t countenance changes that weaken the measure, which is designed to prevent a hard border emerging on the island of Ireland as a result of Brexit. “A deal without a backstop, a deal with a time-limited backstop might as well be no deal,” she said on RTE radio. Why Ireland’s Border Commands Its Own Brexit Backstop: QuickTake The EU won’t renegotiate the Brexit deal, Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel told reporters on his way into the second day of a summit. "It’s the best possible deal," he said, repeating the leaders’ mantra of recent months. Any further delay to Brexit beyond October would require a good reason, he said. — With assistance by Richard Bravo, Tim Ross, Viktoria Dendrinou, Katharina Rosskopf, Peter Flanagan, Stephanie Bodoni, Fergal O'Brien, Nikos Chrysoloras, and Slav Okov