An exotic lineup of new passenger jets, warplanes, drones and helicopters greeted visitors to this week’s Paris Air Show, with unmanned and electric craft vying for attention with more traditional designs, as well as one guest from a galaxy far, far away. Here are some the models making waves at the world’s biggest aviation expo: Future Fighter Airbus and Dassault Aviation unveiled their vision for a warplane to replace the current Eurofighter. The as-yet unnamed rival to the British Tempest -- revealed at last year’s Farnborough expo -- dwarfed Dassault’s Rafale model and drew approving glances from French President Emmanuel Macron.  Electric Future Israel’s Eviation Aircraft is close to turning the chatter about all-electric flights into reality. The nine-seat ‘Alice’ on display in Paris will make its debut flight this year, becoming the first zero-emission plane of its size, according to the manufacturer. An initial order was placed by U.S. regional airline Cape Air, which will use it to fly wealthy Americans from Boston to Martha’s Vineyard. Mega-Drone Italy’s Leonardo unveiled the Falco Xplorer military surveillance drone, its biggest unmanned craft to date, with a payload capacity of 350 kilograms, more than 24 hours flight time and an ability to be controlled from anywhere in the world via satellite. The model will also be pitched to civil customers from coast guards to emergency responders. Need for Speed Boom Supersonic’s Paris presentation was standing room only, such is the excitement around its planned Concorde successor. Boom said a one-third-scale demonstrator plane will be presented this year -- but that the first flight has slipped into 2020 as it works on safety systems. And a full-size jetliner, the Overture, won’t now fly until the middle of next decade. Would-be customer Japan Airlines remains keen as it eyes Tokyo to LA in 5 1/2 hours. Regional Upstart Mitsubishi showed off the renamed Spacejet as it detailed plans to dominate a regional jet market throw into turmoil by the breakup of Canada’s Bombardier and Boeing’s slow-burning acquisition of Brazil’s Embraer. The former MRJ is the first airliner designed and produced in Japan since the 1960s, with a smaller version under development to target U.S. sales. Star (Wars) Appeal A life-size Lego model of Luke Skywalker’s X-Wing fighter proved as big a draw as any of the more earthly kit on display. Flight Daily News noted that the craft’s hard angles would make it easily visible to enemy radar, but said its physics-defying faster-than-light capability would be attractive to air forces, as would its “powerful artificial intelligence node” -- or R2 unit.