North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and U.S. President Donald Trump inside the demilitarized zone (DMZ) separating the South and North Korea on June 30, 2019. Photographer:  Dong-A Ilbo via Getty Images Photographer:  Dong-A Ilbo via Getty Images Democrats seeking to replace Donald Trump said while it’s good the president is talking with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un about eliminating his nuclear weapons, this weekend’s drama appeared to be more of a show than a path toward getting results. “Of course as a country, we want this to work,” Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar, a 2020 Democratic presidential candidate, said on CNN’s “State of the Union’’ on Sunday. “But it’s not as easy as just going and, you know, bringing a hot dish over the fence to the dictator next door.’’ Trump and Kim agreed to restart nuclear talks after the impromptu hour-long meeting Sunday that saw Trump become the first American leader to set foot in North Korea while in office by joining Kim in the Demilitarized Zone that separates the two Koreas. Read more: Trump Makes History With Kim Jong Un But Democrats said Kim hasn’t yet kept a commitment to denuclearize after two previous summits, and that Trump’s approach to diplomacy appears to be more about optics than doing the hard work before high-profile meetings: Republicans praised Trump’s approach. Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said “there’s no downside’’ for the president to continue to talk with Kim in pursuit of a deal to denuclearize the Korean peninsula. “If Trump thinks he can do this by continue to engage Kim Jong Un, let’s give it a try,’’ Graham said on CBS’s “Face the Nation,’’ according to an excerpt provided by the network. Trump’s supporters and critics should give him credit for getting negotiations started, Republican House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy of California said. “America’s in a stronger position to make the world safer, and the president did it with style that others have not be able to do,” he said on Fox’s “Sunday Morning Futures.” Still, James Clapper, a director of national intelligence under former President Barack Obama, disputed Trump’s assertion during the trip that Obama was “begging’’ for a meeting with Kim that the North Korea dictator refused. “I don’t know where he’s getting that,’’ Clapper said on CNN. “That’s news to me.” — With assistance by Ryan Beene