Follow @Brexit, sign up to our Brexit Bulletin, and tell us your Brexit story. Conservative members of Parliament will vote in the next stage of the contest to elect a new party leader and British prime minister on Wednesday after Boris Johnson surged ahead of his rivals on Tuesday. Dominic Raab was eliminated, and has thrown his support behind the front-runner, according to the Evening Standard newspaper. Rory Stewart said he was in talks with Michael Gove on a potential deal. Must read: Boris Johnson Extends Lead in Race to Become U.K. Prime Minister Scottish National Party leader Ian Blackford launched an attack on Boris Johnson during Prime Minister’s Questions. “This is a man who is not fit for office,” he told the House of Commons. “Not only is the member racist, he is stoking division in communities and has a record of dishonesty.” After Speaker John Bercow told him to withdraw the remarks, Blackford refused. He said Johnson “has called Muslim women ‘letterboxes,’ described African people as having ‘watermelon smiles.’ If that’s not racist, I don’t know what is.” “Does the prime minister honestly believe this man is fit for the office of prime minister?” Blackford asked Theresa May. May didn’t answer the question directly, but said “I believe any Conservative prime minister in the future will be better for Scotland than the Scottish National Party." Boris Johnson has again come under fire over remarks he made as foreign secretary about Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a British-Iranian dual national imprisoned in Iran on spy charges. Johnson said incorrectly that she was in the country training reporters, a comment seized on by Iranian state television as an “unintended admission” of her guilt. But during Tuesday’s televised BBC debate, Johnson said his remarks didn’t “make any difference,” a defense criticized by Richard Ratcliffe, Zaghari-Ratcliffe’s husband, on Wednesday. Ratcliffe told BBC Radio Johnson’s remarks were used by the Iranian regime to justify a second court case against his wife, who was in Iran visiting relatives when she was arrested, and to “discredit her ever since.” Dominic Raab on June 17. Dominic Raab told the Evening Standard newspaper he’s backing Boris Johnson in the Tory leadership race, calling him the “only candidate” who will take the U.K. out of the European Union by Oct. 31. “Boris will make sure we leave the EU on time and move on to uniting the country behind a positive program where everyone can benefit from the U.K.’s success,” Raab told the newspaper. Rory Stewart said he would expect to lead the team if talks with rival Michael Gove (see 10:40 a.m.) result in an agreement. A spokesman for Stewart said: “He’s in this to win, whether on his own or with other people coming behind him.” Front-runner Boris Johnson’s pitch for the Tory leadership includes tax cuts, spending increases and an insistence that a no-deal Brexit remain an option. Bloomberg Economist Dan Hanson analyzed the fiscal implications: Read more: If Boris Johnson Wins, Beware the Fiscal Risks Tory leadership candidate Rory Stewart told the BBC he’s in talks with Michael Gove on a potential deal -- though he didn’t give details of how it would work. “We’re talking about combining forces because it’s clear that Boris is going into the last round,” Stewart said. “The question is: Who is best placed to sit on a stage with Boris Johnson, and who is best placed to ask the testing questions that need to be asked, and who has the vision of Britain that’s going to excite people, get young people involved again in politics and show us that we can build a much better country?” Stewart said he and Gove would have to come to a “common position” on the issue of Brexit and whether a new deal could be reached with the European Union. Stewart has repeatedly said he doesn’t think that will be possible. “We’d have to agree to compromise, and if neither of us were prepared to budge on our analysis of the situation, then of course we couldn’t combine as a team,” Stewart said. Tory leadership candidate Jeremy Hunt, who is running a distant second to Boris Johnson in the contest to become prime minister, is trying to take advantage of the front-runner’s apparent inconsistency over the Oct. 31 Brexit deadline. In Tuesday’s televised BBC debate, Johnson declined to guarantee he would take Britain out of the bloc on time. “Boris has made a big play of saying we will definitely leave -- deal or no deal -- on 31st October. Yesterday, frankly he suggested he wouldn’t be so absolute in that,” Hunt told BBC Radio on Wednesday. “I’m not entirely sure what he believes, having listened to him last night.” Johnson and Hunt during the BBC debate on June 18. Hunt, who has himself changed his views on Brexit, said he was sticking with his position that if a deal was in sight, he would be prepared to delay Brexit past Oct. 31 to get a deal done, pointing out the shortage of parliamentary business days between now and the deadline. “If it’s a matter of a few days or weeks, of course we’re not going to suddenly rip us out of the European Union and give up on the whole thing, because you have to think about the interests of business,” he said. Home Secretary Sajid Javid, who scraped through the ballot Tuesday with 33 supporters -- the minimum needed to get through to Wednesday’s round -- said he would not withdraw from the leadership contest. “I’m in it to win it,’’ Javid told ITV’s Good Morning Britain program. Javid repeated his assertion that the best way to deliver Brexit is to do a deal with the European Union, arguing his experience in business qualified him to negotiate with the bloc. “The biggest mistake we made on this is about three years ago, we walked into the negotiating room, we put our hands on the table and we let them handcuff us to the table,’’ he said. “Now we need someone to unlock those handcuffs, and I can do that.’’ Rory Stewart after removing his tie during the debate. International Development Secretary Rory Stewart, who doubled the number of Conservative members of Parliament supporting his leadership bid in a ballot Tuesday, said some of eliminated candidate Dominic Raab’s backers are now behind him. “I had a couple this morning” of Raab supporters pledging support, Stewart told BBC radio Wednesday. While pro-Brexit Raab had been determined to take Britain out of the European Union by Oct. 31, Stewart’s approach is more consensual. Seeking a deal through Parliament is “the only door out of the room,” he said. Stewart also indicated he’d be prepared to strike a deal with rival Michael Gove, without giving details. “I talk to Michael all the time,” he said. “It would make a lot of sense for us, at this stage, to combine.” Stewart attracted comment for removing his tie half-way through Tuesday evening’s debate. He conceded the format of the BBC show had not worked very well for him. Later, he joked to the broadcaster that he felt the discussion was moving into an alternative universe and that removing his tie might help restore a sense of reality. Boris Johnson Extends Lead in Race to Become U.K. Prime MinisterHow the Tory Rivals for PM Reckon They Can Fix BrexitBrexit Bulletin: Early Election?