Under the microscope. Deutsche Bank AG’s planned merger with Commerzbank AG is designed to create a national champion to oil the wheels of Europe’s biggest economy. The combined business would have about 1.81 trillion euros ($2.05 trillion) of assets, making it Europe’s fourth-largest on that measure after HSBC Holdings Plc of the U.K. and French banks BNP Paribas SA and Credit Agricole Group. Here, in charts, is a look at what each bank brings to the deal. The combined assets of the two banks would be 1.81 trillion euros Source: Bloomberg Note: As of year ended 2018. Together, the banks enjoy about 34 billion euros in annual revenue. While revenue from Deutsche Bank’s investment banking unit far surpasses that of its rival, one of the key attractions of Commerzbank is the lender’s income from German consumers and small and medium-sized businesses. The combined revenue of the two banks would be 34 billion euros Source: Bloomberg Note: As of year ended 2018. Even after both banks have eliminated thousands of jobs, the two firms employ about 141,000 people combined. Reducing that headcount will be crucial if the merger is to pay off. That will likely mean pruning their branch networks, too. The two banks combined would have approximately 141,000 employees and 2,600 branches and would be worth 25 billion euros Source: Bloomberg Note: Employees as of year ended 2018, branches as of year ended 2017, market value as of Friday. It’s not clear, however, whether a merger  will stop the rot. Shares of both banks have tumbled in recent years, and the two trade at substantial discounts to the book value of their assets. Shares of both German lenders have failed to rebound from the financial crisis Source: Bloomberg  This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners. To contact the authors of this story:Elaine He at ehe36@bloomberg.netElisa Martinuzzi at emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story:Edward Evans at eevans3@bloomberg.net