Boeing Co. shares sank after European regulators issued a blanket ban on 737 Max flights, and India also joined in a global rebuke of the U.S. manufacturer’s most important plane in the wake of Sunday’s deadly Ethiopian Airlines crash. Wreckage recovered from the crash site. The regulators’ decisions, following similar steps in China, Indonesia and Singapore, will add to questions around the future of the newest addition to Boeing’s 737 family, a cash cow that generates almost a third of the company’s operating profit. While investigators are still piecing together why an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max 8 plunged to the ground minutes after takeoff Sunday, regulators across the globe took pre-emptive action. Here are the latest developments (time stamps are local time in London): After India also banned the 737 Max, the country’s aviation minister said he’ll hold an emergency meeting to prepare contingency plans to minimize passenger disruption. Indian carriers SpiceJet Ltd. and Jet Airways India Ltd. have a combined fleet of about 20 of the planes altogether, with firm orders for more than 260 in total.  Sources: Airlines, Bloomberg research Note: As of March 12, 2:30 p.m. ET The European Union’s aviation authority suspended all flight operations of the 737 Max 8 and larger 737 Max 9 in Europe, and banned flights from outside the region starting at 7 p.m. London time. The agency, which usually goes along with the FAA, said it was acting out of an abundance of caution and out of concern for passenger safety. “The accident investigation is currently ongoing, and it is too early to draw any conclusions as to the cause of the accident,” EASA said in an emailed statement. Boeing’s stock drop, adding up to more than 12 percent intraday since Sunday’s fatal crash in Ethiopia, has narrowed the gap between its market value and European rival Airbus. Italy’s aviation authority followed along with European peers in stopping commercial flights of Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft in its airspace. U. S. President Donald Trump suggests that aircraft have gotten too complex: Spreads on Boeing bonds widened for a second day in active trading on Tuesday, while the cost of insuring against default with CDS instruments rose the most in three years. Investors are backing away despite a statement by S&P saying Sunday’s crash has no effect on the ratings of the company because of its "ample liquidity to deal with any impact." CreditSights upgraded Boeing bonds to hold from underperform, saying investors shouldn’t sell into weakness and citing balance-sheet strength. Authorities in France, Turkey and the Netherlands followed Germany, Ireland and the U.K. in banning 737 Max flights from their airspace. “Safety has absolute priority,” German Transport Minister Andreas Scheuer told NTV in an interview on Tuesday. “Until all doubts have been dispelled, I have ordered that the German airspace is closed for the Boeing 737 Max as of now.” Ireland’s aviation authority also suspended operations of all 737 Max variants. Shares of Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA and tour operator TUI AG also declined, as they are some of the European carriers that fly the newest version of Boeing’s workhorse narrow-body in the U.K. Earlier, Malaysia, Singapore and Australia closed their air space to 737 Max planes in response to a second crash of the model in five months. On Monday, China and Indonesia had halted flights. It’s rare for regulators from other countries to defy the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. “I’m watching this unfold with an element of astonishment and bemusement,” said Sandy Morris, an aerospace analyst Jefferies International in London, said by phone. “What we’re looking at here is almost a rebellion against the FAA. It’s the first time I’ve ever seen this happen.” Britain banned flights using Boeing Co.’s 737 Max aircraft, delivering the biggest blow yet to the model after a crash in Ethiopia on Sunday raised questions about its safety. European regulators at safety agency EASA are preparing to follow suit, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be named before an announcement. Read: Boeing 737 Max Grounded by U.K. in Biggest Blow Yet to U.S. Jet Operations are suspended to and from country’s airports, the country’s aviation regulator said on Twitter. State-owned Oman Air currently operates 5 and has 25 on order, according to the state-run Oman Observer. The country’s Civil Aviation Authority’s decision takes effect immediately, the regulator says in a tweeted statement. The ban covers operations to, from and transiting Malaysia. Indonesia’s Lion Air, one of the biggest customers for the 737 Max, is refusing to take delivery of more planes and is considering switching to Airbus SE, escalating a tense standoff that resulted from the carrier’s own air disaster which killed 189 people in October, according a person familiar with the matter. Anger over the U.S. planemaker’s response to the Lion Air tragedy prompted co-founder Rusdi Kirana to say in December he planned to scrap $22 billion of Boeing jet orders. The Ethiopian crash, which bore some similarities to Lion Air’s, has added to Kirana’s resolve, the person said. Read more: Lion Air Said to Mull Pivot to Airbus After Boeing Orders Halted South Korean operator Eastar Jet said it will suspend flights with its two 737 Max 8 planes, while Singapore’s Silkair said temporarily withdrawing its fleet of six Max 8’s will affect some of its flight schedules. These followed Max jet groundings by low-cost Brazilian carrier Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA, along with Grupo Aeromexico. The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore said all Boeing 737 Max flights will be suspended into and out of Singapore. The suspension takes effect from 2 p.m. local time on March 12. SilkAir’s Boeing 737 Max 8. Mexico’s Grupo Aeromexico SAB became the latest airline to suspend Boeing 737 Max flights. The airline said it would temporarily ground its six Max jets until it has more information about the Ethiopian Airlines disaster. Hours earlier, Aeromexico said it was confident in its Max fleet and the aircraft were in perfect condition. Here’s what happened on Monday: FAA Says Boeing 737 Max Still Airworthy Despite Second CrashBack-to-Back 737 Crashes Have Few Parallels in Aviation HistoryBoeing Jet Woes Lead Analysts to Stress Caution After Crash Ethiopia Finds Flight Recorders From Doomed Boeing 737 MaxCrashed Ethiopian Plane Had at Least 19 UN Officials on BoardWhat Is the Boeing 737 Max and Which Airlines Fly It?: QuickTakeFearful Flyers Lose Faith in Boeing 737 Max After Second CrashTwo Short, Erratic Flights End in Tragedy: Could They Be Linked?Boeing Shares Weigh on Dow Futures After Ethiopia CrashHow Boeing’s 737 Max Went From Bestseller to Safety Concern — With assistance by Abbas Al Lawati, Jihye Lee, Kyunghee Park, Kriti Gupta, Anurag Kotoky, and Nancy Moran