Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Stocks gained across Europe and Asia and futures for the benchmark U.S. gauge advanced as equity markets sought to shake off the worst week of the year. The dollar nudged higher. Oil and gas companies led the Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s first advance in four sessions, with contracts on the S&P 500 and Nasdaq also pointing higher. Futures on the Dow looked likely to slip at the open after the Sunday crash of Boeing Co.’s 737 Max, operated by Ethiopian Airlines, with the U.S. manufacturer the biggest component of the gauge. China reportedly moved to ground flights involving the model with its domestic airlines as the crash rattled confidence. In Asia, Chinese shares outperformed, paring some of Friday’s losses with stocks in Japan, Hong Kong. The pound trimmed earlier losses as another key Brexit vote looms in parliament on Prime Minister Theresa May’s revised deal. Treasuries declined along with most European bonds. “With the Fed taking an easier path rather than continuing to raise interest rates, the outlook for equities is relatively constructive,” Hans Goetti, founder of HG Research, told Bloomberg TV from Singapore. A slew of data releases this week will be closely watched for clues on growth and the impact of central bank policy in the U.S., European Union and China, with the Bank of Japan the next to meet. On the trade front, Beijing and Washington are in general agreement on many crucial issues and have held meaningful discussions on foreign exchange, People’s Bank of China Governor Yi Gang said. Elsewhere, oil prices climbed ahead of the release this week of the IEA’s Oil 2019 report and OPEC’s monthly market report. The Turkish lira shrugged off lower-than-expected growth. U.S. stocks’ outlook ’relatively constructive,’ says Hans Goetti, founder and CEO of HG Research Here are some key events coming up: These are the latest moves in markets: — With assistance by Nancy Moran