A man looks out from a platform as the Qianximen Bridge stands across the Jialing River in Chongqing, China. Stocks in Asia fell amid signs China is trying to slow down the country’s equity rally and after cuts to economic forecasts at the European Central Bank reignited concern on global growth, sending global bond yields lower. The euro remained near the lowest since 2017. Equities from Sydney to Hong Kong retreated, with financials and technology leading losses. Chinese shares bore the brunt of losses as traders took a rare sell rating from the nation’s largest brokerage as a sign that the government wants to curb gains. Earlier, the S&P 500 sank for a fourth day and the gauge closed just below its closely watched 200-day moving mean that has provided support in the past. Australian bonds tracked gains in Treasuries and bunds, while the dollar steadied after gaining for a seventh day. The yen ticked higher. The U.S. jobs report on Friday will provide the next clues on the health of global growth after ECB President Mario Draghi delivered fresh stimulus as he downgraded the outlook for the region’s economy. The move came during a week that’s seen China cut its goal for economic expansion, the Bank of Canada dial back its expectations for policy tightening and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development lowering its global outlook. China’s exports in February declined more than 20 percent from a year earlier and imports also weakened due to the Chinese New Year shutdown and continued uncertainty from the trade war, data from the nation’s customs administration showed Friday. “All these different variables are beginning to come together to paint a more dismal outlook for global growth,” Lindsey Piegza, chief economist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., told Bloomberg TV from Minneapolis. “We saw the ECB wake up to the acknowledgment of a weaker growth and inflation profile in Europe, but this is sending a broad-based signal that contagion may be coming to the U.S.” Rachel Farrell, chief executive officer of JPMorgan Asset Management Australia, discusses the outlook for markets. Elsewhere, the pound was steady after the European Union was said to make a new offer to the U.K. in an attempt to break the Brexit impasse. Oil was little changed above $56 a barrel in New York. Here are some key events coming up: These are the latest moves in markets: — With assistance by Brendan Walsh, Reade Pickert, and Scarlet Fu