Follow @Brexit, sign up to our Brexit Bulletin, and tell us your Brexit story. With Parliament deadlocked, politicians vote Thursday on whether to delay Brexit after they rejected a no-deal split from the European Union. Theresa May hasn’t given up on getting her deal ratified; her office said she’d put it to a third vote in Parliament if it was “worthwhile” to do so.    Opening the debate for the government, May’s de facto deputy, David Lidington, said if the prime minister’s deal doesn’t go through by the time of the EU summit next Thursday, MPs would then be given the chance to find a way forward in the following two weeks. It implies the government has accepted the idea of so-called indicative votes (see 8 a.m.) “The government recognizes that the House will require time to consider the potential ways forward in such a scenario,” he said. Lidington summarizes the choice as: back May’s deal and get a short Brexit extension, or reject May’s deal, take a long extension and let Parliament figure out the way forward. Speaker John Bercow’s rejection of amendment B -- an attempt to rule out a second Brexit referendum -- provoked ire in the House of Commons from pro-Brexit MPs, including from Conservatives Mark Francois and Jacob Rees-Mogg. Another Tory, Caroline Johnson, pointed out that amendment B had more support -- 127 signatories -- than all the other amendments combined. But Bercow didn’t budge, pointing out the number of signatories is only one factor the speaker considers when choosing amendments. Speaker of the House of Commons John Bercow selected four amendments to be voted on this evening, in this order. They are: Bercow also selected an amendment to Benn’s amendment (I), which would insert a date for the length of the extension. A person familiar with Corbyn’s strategy said the party was minded to back Benn’s amendment, boosting its chance of success. U.S. President Donald Trump said his administration “looks forward” to a “large-scale” trade deal with the U.K. once its divorce from the European Union is complete. Prime Minister Theresa May’s administration regards a trans-Atlantic agreement as one of the great prizes of Brexit. Read more: Trump Says He ‘Looks Forward’ to U.K. Trade Deal Post Brexit A U.K. official suggested no further changes to the Brexit deal that Theresa May negotiated with the EU are possible, noting discussions with Brussels on the backstop are “over.” The official also suggested that May is likely to seek an extension to Article 50 negotiations at the European Council next Thursday. That’s the reasoning behind her urging lawmakers to approve a deal by March 20 or face a lengthy delay to Brexit. The government earlier released guidance on the process for extending Article 50, noting that “while Article 50 does not set out how this decision should be taken, and in theory the European Council could act by written procedure, to date it has taken all decisions under Article 50 in scheduled meetings.” Theresa May will put her Brexit deal -- which has been overwhelmingly rejected twice -- back to Parliament for another vote if she thought it would win support, her spokesman told reporters. “If it were felt it would be worthwhile to bring the deal back for a new vote then that is something we would do,” James Slack said. In the House of Commons, Tory MP Edward Leigh asked Andrea Leadsom to allow time for a debate on whether the U.K. would be able to use powers in the Vienna Convention to exit the much-hated Irish backstop -- the main hurdle to getting the Brexit deal ratified in Parliament. It’s a common argument among Brexiteers; Leigh has previously proposed an amendment on using the convention. Andrea Leadsom speaks in Parliament on March 14. Leadsom replied that Attorney General Geoffrey Cox had already taken questions on the issue in Parliament, though she added: “I’m sure if he has more to say on this matter, he will come to the House to say it.” For reference, Cox said this on Tuesday: “A sovereign state has the right to withdraw if a treaty is no longer compatible with its fundamental interests or fundamental circumstances.” He then added a word of caution: “It would be unwise and it would not be in the tradition of this country to do so.’’ In the House of Commons, Cabinet minister Andrea Leadsom is facing criticism from opposition lawmakers after announcing a Parliament schedule for next week that doesn’t include the timing for another vote on Theresa May’s Brexit deal -- even though the government sees Wednesday, March 20 as a deadline for getting a deal ratified. The omission doesn’t mean the vote won’t happen. She’s also being repeatedly quizzed about Conservative whipping arrangements in Wednesday’s vote on a no-deal Brexit. She replied that because the government’s motion was amended, it created a “challenging” situation ahead of the final vote. Tory MP Oliver Letwin proposed an amendment to Thursday’s motion calling for Parliament to have time to debate alternative Brexit plans next week. He wants lawmakers to have non-binding votes on alternatives, known as indicative votes -- it’s an idea supported by several Cabinet ministers (see 8 a.m.). “Of course the prime minster may bring back more votes in the meantime, but then it’s a race to the finish,” Letwin said. He’s working with MPs from the opposition Labour Party and said he thinks he has the support to pass it. Competing with May’s main text to shape the future of Brexit today are two amendments attempting to force a second referendum. Countering that effort is an effort by both Tory and Labour euroskeptics to strike out a second so-called people’s vote on the basis it would be “divisive and expensive.” ITV also reported Labour lawmakers Hilary Benn and Yvette Cooper, as well as Tory Oliver Letwin, are proposing an amendment calling for an extension to Article 50 to allow for indicative votes in Parliament on various Brexit options. Prime Minister Theresa May has called a meeting of her political Cabinet (excluding civil servants) at 1:30 p.m. ahead of tonight’s parliamentary vote on delaying Brexit, two people familiar with the matter said. European Council President Donald Tusk, who coordinates on behalf of the EU’s national governments, said on Twitter he will consult with leaders on a long Brexit delay. “I will appeal to the EU27 to be open to a long extension if the U.K. finds it necessary to rethink its Brexit strategy and build consensus around it,” he said. There’s still no consensus among the rest of the EU about how long an extension should be. Diplomats have discussed periods ranging from three months to 21 months. The issue is unlikely to be resolved until leaders meet at a summit in Brussels next week. Prime Minister Theresa May has proposed a short extension until June 30, but warned last night that if no deal is passed in Parliament by next Wednesday, the delay is likely to last much longer. Philip Hammond has continued his round of broadcast interviews, telling the BBC that he’s “certain’’ MPs will vote to delay Brexit today. He defended ministerial colleagues who had rebelled yesterday, suggesting there had been confusion about what the government’s position was. Philip Hammond He also predicted some MPs who have rejected Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal so far might wobble as they saw Parliament shifting to a softer Brexit. Hammond lent some support to the idea that Attorney General Geoffrey Cox might be able to revise his legal advice in a way that satisfies Brexiteers. “I’m sure the attorney general will want to consider very carefully all the evidence and all the opinion there is around this issue,’’ Hammond said. Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond made clearer his call from Wednesday for Parliament to be allowed to say what it does want in Brexit -- rather than simply given opportunities to reject things. “We now have to find a way forward,” he told Sky News. “I am very happy with the prime minister’s deal. But I think we also have to explore other options for Parliament to express a view about how we resolve this impasse.” That sounds like a call for indicative votes, an idea that’s been backed by some members of Cabinet since last year. MPs would be given a chance to vote on a series of Brexit options to see which can command a majority. Business Secretary Greg Clark made a similar call last night on ITV’s ‘Peston’ show, saying Parliament “should now come to a view.” May has repeatedly rejected the idea, and it’s a sign of how shot her authority is that ministers are openly advocating it. Clark was among a group of them who refused to vote as instructed last night. Minister Stephen Hammond told the BBC the government was allowing so-called free votes on delaying Brexit on Thursday -- an indication May’s office realized that attempting to impose discipline on Wednesday only showed her weakness. Brexit Heads for Delay as May Tries to Scare Up Support for DealBrexit Bulletin: Losing ControlBrexit Delay Adds Another Dimension of Damage to U.K. EconomyMay Prepares Britain’s Next Great Brexit Mistake: Clive Crook — With assistance by Ian Wishart, Terrence Dopp, and Kathleen Hunter