Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. U.S. equity futures slipped, European shares firmed and Asian benchmarks were mixed Wednesday as investors awaited fresh catalysts on trade and monetary policy. The dollar advanced for a sixth day and Treasury yields ticked lower. Contracts on the Dow Jones, Nasdaq and S&P 500 all declined as reports showed the U.S. trade deficit widened in 2018 to a 10-year high and private companies added fewer jobs last month. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained, the euro edged weaker and most European bonds rose after a report that central bank officials are poised to cut their economic forecasts by enough to justify another bout of loans for banks. In Asia, Chinese shares outperformed and Japanese equities dropped. The pound slipped on speculation U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May could be in for another bruising vote in Parliament on Brexit, and the Australian dollar sank after disappointing data on the economy spurred bets on interest-rate cuts. Trade remains high on the agenda, with investors looking for firm details about a possible deal between the U.S. and China. Meanwhile, the bond market signals more caution and Morgan Stanley is now predicting Treasury yields will drop as low as 2.35 percent by the end of the year. Traders will also get plenty to ponder from the European Central Bank’s policy decision and the monthly U.S. jobs report later in the week. Elsewhere, commodities were led lower by oil after an industry report showed a bigger-than-expected buildup in U.S. crude stockpiles. Emerging-market stocks climbed for a fourth day and currencies were steady. Turkey’s lira weakened after the country’s central bank held its policy rate unchanged. The dollar is just treading water, according to Alan Ruskin, co-head of FX strategy at Deutsche Bank. Here are some key events coming up: These are the latest moves in markets: — With assistance by Cormac Mullen, John Ainger, Sid Verma, and Adam Haigh