Theresa May struck a deal to revise the terms of the U.K.’s divorce from the European Union, but it’s unclear whether she’s done enough to win Parliament’s support in a crucial vote on Tuesday. Some leading Conservatives are calling for more time to examine the changes. Read more: May Strikes New Brexit Deal, Asks Parliament to Vote for It Eurasia Group’s Mujtaba Rahman sees grounds for optimism for Theresa May -- even though her deal is likely to fail tonight. “Many MPs believe May has done enough to avoid another catastrophic defeat, and might even get close to the winning post, while falling perhaps 50 votes short,”  he wrote. That would be a “sign of some precious momentum for her deal.” Jeffrey Donaldson, a key Democratic Unionist Party lawmaker, gave little away in his interview with Irish broadcaster RTE, saying the group is still studying Monday’s agreement and is awaiting Attorney General Geoffrey Cox’s analysis. He did, however, seem to offer a glimmer of hope to Theresa May, saying there now appeared to be more “clarity” around the divorce deal. He added, though, that the DUP “could do with more time” to examine the agreement. Jacob Rees-Mogg, who leads the European Research Group of pro-Brexit Conservatives who May needs to get her deal through Parliament, said his decision will depend on the views of a panel of lawyers working for his group, and the advice from Attorney General Geoffrey Cox. How May’s Northern Irish allies, the DUP, consider the contentious backstop will also be critical to persuading many Tories to back the deal, he said. One of their members of Parliament, Nigel Dodds, is in the ERG’s legal group which meets at 9 a.m. to discuss last night’s deal revisions. Rees-Mogg said he needs to be reassured that the U.K. can exit the backstop provision if it needs. “If it is genuinely unilateral and is accepted by the DUP, Geoffrey Cox” and the ERG’s own lawyers, he would vote for the deal, he said. “I am a Conservative member of Parliament, I am always disposed to be sympathetic to a Conservative prime minister.” He also said the process has been “desperately rushed” and said the government should postpone the vote by a day. Environment Secretary Michael Gove said the government is committed to holding the meaningful vote on Tuesday, arguing it’s vital for members of Parliament to back May or risk a diluted Brexit or calling if off altogether. He said the government had secured legally binding changes to the deal, meaning the U.K. could exit the backstop if the EU acts in bad faith. “If the EU acts in way that is not in accordance with their commitments, we can go to court and we can win,” Gove told BBC Radio, and said nobody should preempt the judgment of the House of Commons. He also warned his pro-Brexit colleagues that rejecting the deal and forcing the U.K. to “petition” the EU for an extension, and that would be in the bloc’s gift. Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar’s statement in Dublin was a delicate balancing act, making clear that he doesn’t regard Monday’s developments as having reopened the divorce deal or undermining the backstop. On other hand, he said that the layers of reassurance provided to the British government should put to rest fears fears that the U.K. might be trapped in the backstop. As he heads to the U.S., he said London should now be given “time and space” to weigh the deal deal. Meanwhile, Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Borrell told Ser Radio the treaty “hasn’t been modified, but there has been a joint declaration and everybody is applauding saying that is legally binding.” Speaking on BBC Radio 4, Labour’s Brexit spokesman Keir Starmer said the revisions to the divorce deal haven’t changed anything and the party would still vote against it. “It’s a bit like someone reading their home contents insurance and saying ‘this is what I think it means.’ If the other side doesn’t agree, it doesn’t mean anything,” he said. May will be hoping, though, that some Labour lawmakers reject their own party’s position and back her government tonight; she’s likely to need at least some of their votes to offset Conservative rebels. May Strikes New Brexit Deal, Asks Parliament to Vote for ItBrexit Bulletin: Were You Up for Juncker?These Are the Sectors to Watch After May Strikes New Brexit DealParis and Dublin Pursue Their Next Brexit Prize: Lionel Laurent — With assistance by Charles Penty