Stocks in Asia headed for a mixed start Wednesday after U.S. shares nudged higher and Treasuries rose as weak inflation data bolstered bets the Federal Reserve can stay patient. The pound held a loss as the U.K.’s Brexit turmoil deepened. Futures in Japan dropped and Australian shares dipped, while contracts in Hong Kong were little changed, after the S&P 500 Index posted a small advance. Sterling fell Tuesday after U.K. lawmakers rejected the government’s latest deal to leave the European Union, raising the prospect that the divorce will be delayed or even reversed. The 10-year Treasury yield dropped with the dollar. “I expect equity markets to remain volatile and to tread water, and there is still too much risk in risk assets, and ultimately I think bond yields will head lower but this is a process that unfolds, it’s not a sudden event,” Suzanne Hutchins, a senior portfolio manager at Newton Investment Management in London, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. A panel of experts discuss the outlook for U.S. inflation and its impact on the Fed. The latest version of U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal was defeated by 391 votes to 242 in Parliament. Parliament will probably vote to postpone Brexit this week, and lawmakers -- including some of May’s own Cabinet -- will likely try to maneuver to force the government to rip up its Brexit plans and start again. Alongside Brexit developments, investors have a slew of economic data to digest. The latest inflation reading came amid falling prices for autos and prescription drugs, adding to evidence the American economy is in no danger of overheating. In the coming days the focus will turn to Chinese production and retail sales, as well as a Bank of Japan policy decision. Elsewhere, crude prices climbed after an oil-industry report showed an unexpected drop in U.S. fuel supplies. Here are some of the key events coming up: And these are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Reade Pickert