A group, who allegedly had colleagues on the  Ethiopian Airlines flight look at the arrival flight schedule at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi, Kenya, on March 10. Photographer: YasuyoshiChiba/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: YasuyoshiChiba/AFP via Getty Images Addis Ababa, Ethiopia (AP) -- The Latest on Ethiopian Airlines crash (all times local): 11 p.m. Nigeria's foreign affairs ministry says a former ambassador is among the victims of the Ethiopian Airlines crash. A statement says Abiodun Oluremi Bashua was a retired career envoy who served in various capacities in Iran, Austria and Ivory Coast. It says the ambassador, born in 1951, was a "seasoned U.N. expert" with experience in several United Nations peacekeeping missions in Africa. All 157 people died when the plane crashed minutes after taking off from Addis Ababa. ___ 10:30 p.m. The World Food Program is confirming that two of the eight Italian victims aboard the Ethiopian Airlines jet worked for the Rome-based U.N. agency. A WFP spokeswoman identified the victims as Virginia Chimenti and Maria Pilar Buzzetti. Another three Italians worked for the Bergamo-based humanitarian agency Africa Tremila: Carlo Spini, his wife Gabriella Viggiani and the treasurer, Matteo Ravasio. In addition, Paolo Dieci, a prominent aid advocate with the International Committee for the Development of Peoples, known by its acronym CISP, was killed. Also among the Italian dead was Sebastiano Tusa, a noted underwater archaeologist and the Sicilian regional assessor at the Culture Ministry. RAI state television said he was heading to Malindi, Kenya to participate in a UNESCO conference on safeguarding underwater cultural heritage in east Africa, which opens Monday. ___ 10:15 p.m. A U.N. official says the United Nations expects that about a dozen passengers affiliated with the world organization were on the Ethiopian Airlines jet that crashed outside Addis Ababa killing all 157 people on board, but it could be more. The official, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue, said Sunday that national delegates who might have been heading to U.N. meetings, including the U.N. Environment Program's assembly, wouldn't be included in the count. U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said some colleagues were among the victims. Earlier, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he is "deeply saddened" by the crash that including U.N. staff members, according to a statement from U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric, who gave no details.