Pity the U.K. stock trader. Read all the news and analysis, and you still have little idea which way shares will turn after a momentous vote on Theresa May’s Brexit deal next Tuesday. For many investors, London & Capital’s Roger Jones sums it up best: “If you don’t have to invest in the U.K., don’t.” But for those that have to, or are unusually intrepid, are U.K. equities cheap enough that you can just scoop them up and turn off the TV? After a year of acrimonious and unresolved political wrangling over Britain’s March 29 departure from the European Union, it’s no surprise that U.K. stock valuations have plunged. Yet most investors feel that the possibility of the country crashing out without a deal isn’t fully discounted. Should, as seems likely, Prime Minister May’s plan fail to make it through Parliament next week, British stocks will be left at the mercy of politicians ending their squabbles and finding a solution that’s so far eluded them. “Markets are struggling to find an equilibrium between the risk of a no deal, that of a very soft Brexit or remain vote in a second referendum, and a compromised version of May’s policy,” said Edward Park, investment director at Brooks Macdonald Asset Management in London. “The one thing we do know for markets is that the current market level is incorrect for any of the three Brexit outcomes.” Here are some reasons why a no-deal Brexit may not be fully priced in to U.K. equities: Outside of large caps that are mostly global corporations shielded from Brexit’s effects and even benefit from pound weakness, the picture is grimmer: As Sanford C. Bernstein strategists have put it, the market is “uninvestable” if it’s going to be driven by unpredictable political events. On the other hand, cheap valuations have given some investors as well as Citigroup and Morgan Stanley strategists reason to be bullish. One metric that makes U.K. stocks look irresistible: the FTSE 100’s dividend yield is the highest since the financial crisis. But for many investors, that’s not enough. U.K. equity funds were on course to post their biggest annual outflows on record, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in mid-December. So how will next week’s vote sway stocks? Success for May’s deal would be a surprise. Equities would rally, especially domestic sectors like homebuilders and banks. In the likely event of rejection, the margin of the vote will be key. If it fails by a small difference, Barclays Plc strategists reckon banks and homebuilders will rally 5 percent. If it’s rejected by a large margin -- more than 75 votes -- volatility will spike and those two sectors could be down as much as 10 percent, the strategists say. That’s because it makes it harder for May to scramble together an amended deal that can pass the second time around. May Stares Into Brexit Abyss as Parliament Takes Control Banks from Societe Generale to JPMorgan have said there is also a risk that the consistently negative correlation between FTSE 100 and sterling will break down, exposing even U.K. large caps to greater downside risks as political uncertainty heightens. Indeed, the correlation has weakened since the second half of 2018. Other much less probable scenarios might not be that market-friendly either, since a delay in Brexit or a second referendum would only further increase uncertainty. Equities would fall in the latter case since it would only bring “political chaos,” said Alexis Charveriat, who manages the FDC Brexit fund for Financiere de la Cite from Paris. In the case of no deal, both Charveriat and London & Capital’s Jones say a knee-jerk sell-off may lead to some attractive opportunities. “Uncertainty should crystallize in the first quarter,” Charveriat wrote in an email. “It means mid-term pain for long-term gains.”