Prime Minister May arrives at BBC Broadcasting House ahead of the Andrew Marr show, Jan. 6. Follow @Brexit on Twitter, join our  Facebook group and sign up to our Brexit Bulletin. Theresa May stepped up her battle to persuade her opponents in the British Parliament to back her Brexit deal, warning the U.K. will be in “uncharted territory” if they reject her plan in a key vote this month. The prime minister outlined a three-pronged campaign to win support for the agreement she’s struck with the European Union, proposing to give Parliament a bigger say over the future trade terms with the bloc and promising other sweeteners to woo her critics. If she fails to secure the support of the House of Commons in a vote scheduled for about Jan. 15, May suggested Brexit without a deal would be on the cards -- something analysis by the Treasury and the Bank of England suggests could be economically devastating. She even left open the dramatic option of a second referendum, while insisting she doesn’t want one. Last month, she was forced to postpone the crucial vote in the Commons on whether to approve the terms of the divorce she’s negotiated over the past 18 months with the EU, admitting her plan would have been overwhelmingly defeated. Since then May has held talks with EU leaders in an attempt to win new assurances she hopes will convince skeptical politicians to back her deal. She said she’s "still working on" the negotiation with the EU but confirmed the delayed vote will go ahead as planned later in January. Speaking on Sunday, May promised to set out in the next few days new details in three key areas: how the agreement will operate in Northern Ireland; how members of Parliament will be given more influence over Brexit policy in future; and the extra assurances she’s still aiming to secure from the EU. "If the deal is not voted on at this vote that’s coming up, then actually we’re going to be in uncharted territory," May said on the BBC’s "Andrew Marr Show” Sunday. "I don’t think anybody can say exactly what will happen in terms of the reaction that we’ll see in parliament." May faces opposition to her deal both from Brexiteer lawmakers in her own Conservative Party and from her allies in Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party, which props up her minority government. They’re concerned about a fall-back provision known as the Northern Ireland backstop, that would takes effect if the U.K. and EU can’t strike a trade deal by the end of 2020. The main concerns are that it would permanently tie the U.K. to EU trade rules, and erect barriers between Northern Ireland and the rest of the U.K. "This is not intended to be used in the first place, and if it is, it’s only intended temporary," she said of he backstop. "Ensuring that we actually get the future relationship in place to replace the backstop if it’s used is actually a crucial element of this." She also said that she’s "looking at the role that Parliament can have" in devising the mandate for the talks on the future relationship that will start after Brexit. Nevertheless, her deal still looks like it will struggle to pass the vote in Parliament. One of her predecessors as Tory leader, Iain Duncan Smith, wrote in the Mail on Sunday that "this deal simply doesn’t work, and, far from securing Brexit, it shackles us to the EU." May refused six times on the Marr show to say whether she would seek multiple votes should Parliament kept rejecting the deal. Instead she warned pro-Brexit lawmakers not to let the "perfect" be the enemy of "the good, because "the danger there is actually we end up with no Brexit at all.” The premier also refused to say whether she would implement any decision by Parliament that there should be a second plebiscite, saying that "the House of Commons obviously will come to its view on these things.” "In my view there should not be a second referendum," May said, warning that a new national vote would "divide our country" and require a delay to Brexit. May has repeatedly said that the alternatives to her Brexit deal are "no deal" or "no Brexit." But she declined to say which of those two alternatives she preferred, saying her deal was what she would choose. Lawmakers, however, are seeking to flex their muscles. A cross-party group of rank-and-file Conservative and Labour members said on Sunday that they’re seeking to amend the government’s Finance Bill to ensure the "no deal" provisions in it can only be implemented it Parliament votes to allow it. Their goal is to ensure that a “no deal” Brexit could only be delivered with the explicit consent of Parliament -- something that is unlikely given a majority of lawmakers oppose such an outcome. Conservatives including former ministers Nicky Morgan, Oliver Letwin and Nick Boles put their name to it.