European stocks and U.S. equity-index futures slumped after Apple Inc. added to global growth concerns with a cut in its sales outlook. Stocks in Asia were mixed, while there were wild moves in the currency markets as the yen surged. Technology shares led the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lower after the maker of iPhones cut its revenue outlook for the first time in almost two decades, citing an unforeseen slowdown in China and fewer upgrades to its flagship mobile device. Contracts on the Nasdaq index led the drop for U.S. futures, dipping as much as 2.9 percent. In currency markets, the yen jumped and the Australian dollar slumped to the lowest in almost 10 years as algorithmic programs amplified sharp gyrations amid thin liquidity during a Japanese holiday. Treasuries declined along with most European bonds. Investors attempting to turn the page on 2018 are finding the same old issues spoiling the mood. While fundamentals appear strong by some measures, the protectionist showdown is starting to have an impact on economic activity, as demonstrated by Apple’s warning and a weak reading on Chinese manufacturing. Dysfunction in Washington continues, meanwhile, with leaders unable to strike a deal to end a partial shutdown of the federal government. “That Tim Cook and his company mentioned China as the reason behind the downturn in the company’s outlook seemed to hit exactly the pressure point traders and investors were already alarmed over,” Greg McKenna, markets strategist at McKenna Macro and a three-decade foreign-exchange market veteran, wrote in a note to clients. “That is, the China and global slowdown which seems to have been confirmed by Wednesday’s global manufacturing PMI data.” Martin Lakos, division director for wealth management at Macquarie Bank, discusses the Fed and his outlook for rates. Elsewhere, West Texas oil again slipped to about $46 a barrel. Gold gained a sixth day. Here are some events investors may focus on in coming days: And these are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds, Rishaad Salamat, Yvonne Man, and Andreea Papuc