Asian stocks were mixed on Monday at the start of a crucial week for global trade and a policy meeting of the Federal Reserve. While the MSCI Asia Pacific Index headed toward an eight-week high, fewer than half of the benchmark’s stocks were up on the day. Hong Kong shares led the region, Japan saw modest losses, U.S. and European futures dipped and Australia’s markets were shut for a holiday. Shares on Wall Street finished the week higher Friday on corporate earnings and a reopening -- for now -- of the federal government. Oil fell as traders assessed the implications of political turmoil in Venezuela, a major exporter. Treasury yields edged lower and the yen climbed. Chinese markets rallied after the People’s Bank of China freed up a potential $37 billion for bank lending and a new chief was named to lead the country’s main securities regulator. The yuan also appreciated to its strongest against the dollar since July ahead of Vice Premier Liu He’s trip to Washington for trade talks. Also key this week: Fed Chairman Jerome Powell gets a fresh chance to communicate to markets at a press briefing. JPMorgan Chase & Co. says only the Treasuries and money markets have fully priced in a Fed pivot to holding off on further rate hikes -- with upside remaining for stocks and corporate debt. “Overall, a more dovish Fed and steady progress in trade negotiations will be crucial in sustaining positive market sentiment as Asia slows down going into Lunar New Year,’’ said Tai Hui, chief market strategist for Asia Pacific at JPMorgan Asset Management. “Although we’re unlikely to see a significant market boost in the absence of other fresh catalysts.’’ Meantime, the pound held recent gains, trading around $1.32, amid speculation that a no-deal Brexit will be averted. The U.K. Parliament on Tuesday debates the next steps on that front. Investors are also bracing for a flurry of U.S. economic figures including GDP and employment data, the release of which had been delayed thanks to the government shutdown. Johanna Chua, chief Asia-Pacific economist at Citigroup Global Markets, talks about Fed policy. Among key scheduled events in the coming days: These are the main moves in markets: