Shinzo Abe Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told Theresa May the whole world wants to avoid a no-deal Brexit even as she faces likely defeat when Parliament votes on her plan next week. Following a day of meetings between the two leaders in London Thursday, Abe publicly backed May’s agreement and offered her his “deepest respect” for the work she has done in securing an agreement with the European Union. “We truly hope that a no-deal Brexit will be avoided and in fact, that is the whole wish of the whole world,” Abe said at a press conference in Downing Street. A no-deal Brexit remains the default option if the Parliament doesn’t back May’s agreement on Jan. 15, even though a majority of lawmakers supported a motion on Tuesday designed to reduce the chances of Britain tumbling out of the bloc on 29 March. Such a scenario could trigger a recession with the pound falling by as much as 25 percent, official analysis suggests. “There is a good deal on the table and for those who want to avoid no deal, backing the deal is the thing to do,” May said at the press conference. But the support of May’s Japanese counterpart isn’t likely to be enough to get her deal over the line. Even as two of her Tory lawmakers who had previously signaled opposition to her deal, said they’ll now support it, May is set to lose by a record next week. Almost two-thirds of parliamentarians are expected to vote against her deal, according to analysis by the BBC published Thursday. Read more on Thursday’s Brexit developments, as they happened Cabinet ministers are also starting to raise their head above the parapet. Business Secretary Greg Clark on Tuesday said no deal “should not be contemplated” and reiterated that on Thursday. “We need to act to avoid a no-deal because I don’t think there is anything remotely like a majority in Parliament that will tolerate this,” he told BBC radio. Against this backdrop, May continued to campaign for her deal and another day of fast-paced Brexit developments included: