It may come down to the will of central banks, trade negotiators and voters this week to set the tone for emerging markets headed toward 2020. Traders are standing by for the Federal Reserve and European Central Bank’s last policy decisions of 2019. The central banks’ new forecasts will provide insight into their ability and willingness to provide further stimulus for a global economy that the IMF predicts will grow at the slowest annual pace this year in a decade. “Emerging markets will clearly benefit from any mildly dovish tone which will boost risk assets and oil the wheels of the global carry trade,” said Paul Greer, a London-based money manager at Fidelity International, whose developing-nation debt fund has outperformed 95% of peers this year. The fund is bullish on emerging-market credit, local-currency debt and currencies, he said. Emerging-market stocks and currencies rose for the first time in four weeks in the five days through Friday as a better-than-expected U.S. payrolls report gave the Fed more reason to hold interest rates steady after three straight cuts. Investor sentiment is likely to get another boost from the U.K. election, which could finally pave a more resolute course for an exit from the European Union, and the probability that the U.S. and China will close in on a phase-one trade deal, according to NatWest Markets. Read more: China’s Unexpected Export Drop Shows Why It Wants a Trade Deal “If we do get a phase-one deal and a Brexit, the stage could be set for a decent first quarter for emerging markets,” said Abdul Kadir Hussain, head of fixed-income asset management at Dubai-based Arqaam Capital. Any disappointment could lead to “a very sharp negative reaction, especially given the time of year, when liquidity is starting to thin out,” he said. As a reminder that growth in some developing economies remains sluggish, central banks in Turkey, Russia and Brazil will likely cut interest rates this week. Developing-nation dollar bonds are headed for their best yearly performance since 2012, while stocks and currencies have held on to the bulk of this year’s gains even as the market remains hostage to the ups and downs of the trade talks. The U.S. side expects a phase one deal to be completed before the Dec. 15 deadline when new American tariffs on Chinese goods are scheduled to take effect, according to people familiar with the matter. — With assistance by Alec McCabe