Hundreds of thousands of protesters marched through Hong Kong to mark Human Rights Day and press for greater democracy in the city in the biggest rally in about six months. The rally and march from Victoria Park in Causeway Bay to the Central was the first Civil Human Rights Front-organized event in four months to be given the go-ahead by the government. The front estimated that about 800,000 people took part, while police put the figure at 183,000. Demonstrators gather during a protest at Victoria Park on Dec. 8. Photographer: Kyle Lam/Bloomberg Earlier in the day police said they arrested 11 people and uncovered an arms cache in a raid. Officers seized a semi-automatic pistol, bullet-proof jackets, retractable batons and pepper spray in the raid, which they suspect would have been used by an “extreme” group of people trying to attack police or “create chaos” during the rally, they said at a press conference, citing intelligence reports. More than six months of violent protests that started because of a proposed law that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China have developed into a movement for greater democracy. The activists are also calling for an independent inquiry into police conduct during the unrest. Here’s the latest (all times local): Black-clad, masked people threw a volley of petrol bombs at the entrance to the city’s High Court, Apple Daily reported, citing a passerby. The attackers threw about 10 projectiles, the report said. Thousands of demonstrators carried on pouring through Hong Kong’s city center toward Central, with crowds backed up for kilometers in the biggest march since about 2 million people took to the streets in June. Protesters in Central, the destination of the march, faced off with riot police who blocked the road leading to the western districts. The demonstrators shielded themselves with umbrellas and stood their ground about 100 meters from the officers. Demonstrators started leaving the park in Causeway Bay as they slowly began to march, with the procession backed up to and from the venue because of the number of people taking part. Victoria Park was filled with tens of thousands of protesters for the rally, which was scheduled to start at 3 p.m. Crowds of protesters trying to make their way into the park were stuck in the surrounding streets. Police stood watchfully by as marchers chanted and unfurled banners calling for the government to meet their five demands. One protester, a 24-year-old who would only identify himself as Mr. Tang, said demonstrators needed to have courage and try different things to get the government to respond. When asked whether the last six months had changed him, Mr. Tang said: “I’m more concerned about politics, about the society and what people are fighting for. After seeing the news, we feel more angry and more concerned.” The group suspected of being behind the arms cache that was seized is believed to have been involved in attacking the Mong Kok police station with petrol bombs on Oct. 20, police said at the press conference. Those held Sunday were aged between 20 and 63 and more arrests may follow, they said. Li Kwai Wah, senior superintendent at the Organized Crime Triad Bureau, said police were not previously aware of protesters planning to use guns, so “we’re very nervous.” “I am urging the protesters today to pay extra attention to their surroundings and leave the scene and report to the police if there are signs of danger,” he said. Superintendent Li called on organizers to be in “constant communication with the police so we can take appropriate action when necessary,” in the interests of the public. Police have categorized Sunday’s rally as a “high risk” event , and plan to deploy almost 4,000 officers for the gathering. About 700 people rallied on Saturday against the deportation of Yuli Riswati, an Indonesian domestic worker and award-winning writer who had reported on the city’s ongoing protests, the Apple Daily said. Hundreds of pro-government demonstrators gathered in Harbour Road, Wan Chai, Saturday, waving China and Hong Kong flags and condemning the violent protests and vandalism of the past months. Organizers told local media Ming Pao that they think the vote for local district councils last month was unfair and called for “anti-general strike” action on Monday, in response to protesters’ plan for a general strike. Pro-government supporters at a rally in Wan Chai on Dec. 7. Photographer: Paul Yeung/Bloomberg Fire department staff removed glass bottles and flammable solvents from hardware stores in Causeway Bay. The officers refused to confirm whether the seizures were related to Sunday’s rally.