An Israeli F-15 takes part in air defence exercises at the Ovda air force base, north of Eilat. Photographer: Jack Guez/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Jack Guez/AFP via Getty Images Israel is prepared to bomb Iran if necessary to stop it from acquiring a nuclear weapon, Foreign Minister Israel Katz told Italy’s Corriere della Sera newspaper. “It’s an option. We will not allow Iran to produce or obtain nuclear weapons. If it were the last possible thing to prevent it, we will act militarily,” Katz told the newpaper in an interview in Rome, where he was attending a conference addressing challenges facing Mediterranean nations. Katz reiterated an oft-repeated Israeli stance at a time when the decades-old confrontation over Iran’s nuclear program has intensified, sometimes threatening to erupt into armed conflict. Israel has waged a high-profile campaign against Iran’s atomic program, and supported President Donald Trump’s decision last year to leave the multipower nuclear deal with the Islamic Republic. Since then, Iran -- which denies it has bombmaking aspirations -- has busted its limits under the accord and expanded uranium production. Read more: Israel Fingers Iran’s Khamenei in Saudi Hit as It Eyes Gulf Ties Katz also said Israeli intelligence indicates Iran plans to attack Gulf countries. Tensions in the Gulf have been ratcheted up by attacks on shipping, including crippling strikes on Saudi Arabian oil facilities in September that the U.S., Saudi Arabia and European countries blamed on Tehran. Iran denied responsibility for the assault, which was initially claimed by Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen. “The actions against Saudi Arabia and the oil tankers make us understand that Iran still feels strong, our intelligence information tells us that it intends to hit the Gulf countries again,” Katz said. “The threat of sanctions is not enough. The only deterrent is a credible military threat directed against the regime.” Katz met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov at the conference and pressed Israel’s demand that Iranian forces and proxies be ejected from neighboring Syria. Israel has conducted hundreds of strikes on Iranian targets in Syria, including large-scale bombing runs this year, to try to prevent Iran and its clients from stockpiling an arsenal on its northern frontier.