Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Cricket in South Africa is facing an uncertain future after Africa’s biggest bank opted not to renew a sponsorship deal and the chief executive officer of the governing body was suspended over allegations of misconduct. Standard Bank Group Ltd. said Friday it will end its financial support of the South African national men’s cricket team when its current deal expires in April, citing “a culmination of long-standing problems” that have damaged its reputation. Cricket South Africa sanctioned CEO Thabang Moroe hours later, saying an investigation will take place into unspecified wrongdoing. The sponsorship decision will come as a major blow for CSA, which is already battling mounting losses, a dearth of financial backers and the resignation of independent directors. The organization is also embroiled in a dispute with players over commercial rights and a plan to restructure the domestic system, and has been criticized over a recent move to temporarily withdraw the media accreditation of certain journalists. Standard Bank’s sponsorship is worth about 400 million rand ($27 million), ESPNcricinfo reported, without saying where it got the information. The off-field turmoil comes ahead of a high-profile tour by England, which begins with a five-day match in Pretoria starting Dec. 26. The South African men’s team has had a tough year, losing a test series at home to Sri Lanka for the first time and failing to qualify from the group stage at the World Cup. The squad has struggled to overcome the retirement of key players such as AB De Villiers and Hashim Amla, while the pool of future stars has been eroded by several departures to the U.K. on more lucrative contracts that don’t allow for international caps. South African cricket also operates a racial quota system, which requires the six main franchise teams to pick a certain number of non-white players in every team. That’s to increase participation in a sport that was dominated by the country’s white minority in the apartheid era. CSA is keen to replicate the success of the rugby team, which won the World Cup earlier this year with the most diverse team the country has fielded in the sport’s signature tournament. CSA has also been criticized for failing to appoint a director of cricket, despite holding lengthy talks with celebrated former team captain, Graeme Smith. However, an appointment -- expected to be Smith -- is due to be made this week. The 38-year-old, who retired in 2014 after leading South Africa for 11 years, doesn’t trust the now suspended CEO, CSA president Chris Nenzani told reporters on Saturday. The South African Cricketers’ Association met Friday to discuss a response to the issue over commercial rights, which relate to the images and names of players in South Africa’s ongoing T20 league being used in an Indian fantasy league game. The group is considering going on strike, though Chief Executive Officer Tony Irish has said this would not take place during the England tour. “Extremely poor leadership, both at operational level and at board level, is what has got cricket into this disastrous position,” Irish said in a statement after the meeting. “It is abundantly clear that there is no confidence, from any quarter among cricket stakeholders, in the CSA Board.” The dispute over commercial rights follows a battle over the payment of fees related to last year’s T20 competition, which led to the suspension of three CSA executives. The players are also fighting a legal battle over a plan to restructure the sport, which they say will result in some players losing their professional contracts.