Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Stocks drifted in Europe along with U.S. equity futures on Friday after a mixed session in Asia as investors awaited results from top-level trade talks between America and China. Treasuries posted a modest advance. Declines in food shares offset gains in miners and industrial goods on the Europe Stoxx 600 Index as traders headed toward the end of a largely uneventful week for global equities, other than Chinese stocks, which added to their rally on Friday. Japanese shares slipped. The euro nudged higher before a speech on Friday by European Central Bank President Mario Draghi. The dollar was flat, while West Texas oil traded nudged above $57 a barrel in New York. Markets are largely on hold as U.S. President Donald Trump is set to meet with China’s top trade negotiator in Washington Friday, with the two sides facing a March 1 deadline to avoid a further escalation in tariffs -- unless they extend the period for talks. The mostly lackluster moves in equities on Friday come after an MSCI global gauge of stocks surged 15 percent in less than two months on optimism for an accord between the world’s economic superpowers and a less-hawkish stance from some of the biggest central banks. Despite increasing confidence a deal can be done, investors shouldn’t expect the stellar run for risk assets to continue at this pace, said Richard Turnill, global chief investment strategist at BlackRock. “Don’t chase the rally,” Turnill told Bloomberg TV. “Don’t extrapolate the double-digit gains we’ve seen in the first six weeks of this year.” SocGen’s Kokou Agbo-Bloua, global head of flow strategy, discusses trade talks and their impact on markets. Elsewhere, emerging-market stocks climbed for a fifth day, the longest streak since May. A gauge of smaller Chinese stocks entered a bull market after climbing about 21 percent since October. And these are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Brandon Kochkodin