Trade talks between the U.S. and China are going down to the wire. Theresa May is trying to get a Brexit deal. Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un meet in Vietnam. Jerome Powell and Michael Cohen are set to testify before Congress. Get ready for a wild week. There will be plenty of opportunities for risk to hit markets in the coming days, with heaps of geopolitical news and major economic indicators due to land. Wednesday will be especially challenging for TV producers managing the split screens. On that day: Here’s a closer look at what’s at stake: U.S.-China talks unexpectedly went into the weekend ahead of a March 1 deadline. That’s when American tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese imports would rise to 25 percent from 10 percent if there’s no deal. Trump appeared to signal optimism, saying Friday he’s looking for a “meaningful” long-term accord and that the tariff deadline might be extended. Lighthizer, who was slapped down by Trump on a semantic point, said “major hurdles” remain. All eyes are on whether Trump, presumably eager for a foreign-policy win, offers U.S. inducements for Kim to abandon his nuclear arsenal. The regional implications could be huge for allies such as South Korea, where 30,000 U.S. troops are based, and Japan. There’s concern that Trump will give up too much if Kim makes some kind of sweet-sounding offer, a U.S. official said. A one-on-one meeting is expected at some point during the Feb. 27-28 summit. Don’t count on European Union leaders to settle the U.K.’s departure terms when they meet at an Egyptian resort on Sunday. That’ll leave May to fight it out on Wednesday with Parliament, where lawmakers are threatening to seize control of the Brexit process and force her to postpone the March 29 “exit day.” Faced with increasingly broken British politics, EU officials are floating a three-month Brexit postponement. Also keep an eye out for comments by Emmanuel Macron and Angela Merkel in Paris that afternoon. Look for Powell to offer signals on what’s next for the Fed during two days of congressional testimony. When they last met, policymakers broadly backed ending the runoff of the central bank’s balance sheet. Lighthizer, who testifies Wednesday, may give a sense of how likely the U.S. is to impose tariffs on auto imports. The European Union is threatening to hit back. U.S. fourth-quarter gross domestic product, due Thursday, is expected to show 2.5 percent expansion last year, short of the Trump administration’s ambitious goal. Special Counsel Robert Mueller is close to completing his report on Russian election interference, though it probably won’t drop next week. That turns attention to Michael Cohen, the former Trump fixer sentenced to three years in prison in December. He’ll be giving two days of congressional testimony, including an open session on Wednesday. It’s a chance for Democrats to explore topics such as pre-election hush money paid to women who alleged they had affairs with Trump, and what Cohen knows about Russian influence in the 2016 presidential campaign. What’s more, federal prosecutors in New York are still looking into Trump’s company, presidential campaign and inaugural committee.