Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. U.S. equity futures advanced alongside stocks in Europe and Asia after President Donald Trump postponed the date for boosting tariffs on Chinese imports, taken as a sign of progress in the trade talks. Bonds fell and the dollar retreated. Contracts on the Dow, Nasdaq and S&P all climbed, while the headlines boosted carmakers and miners in Europe, fueling an advance in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. In Asia, the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index rallied the most since 2015 and the yuan strengthened after Trump said he will delay the March 1 trade deadline, and as comments from China President Xi Jinping suggested top officials will focus on growth rather than cracking down on leverage. Emerging-market currencies and shares advanced despite China’s state-run Xinhua news agency later publishing a commentary saying talks will be harder at the final stage. Treasuries and core European bonds slipped, while Italy’s securities advanced. General Electric shares climbed in premarket trading after the company agreed to sell its BioPharma business. “This is a sigh of relief,” Ben Emons, managing director for global macro strategy at Medley Global Advisors, told Bloomberg TV. “Markets will still keep a level of caution, but this news is encouraging.” The official delay from the U.S. may give fresh impetus to extend a global rally in equities that was being tested amid an uncertain future on global trade and forecasts for global economic growth to ebb. Also in focus this week will be a hearing from Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell, where investors will get the latest read on monetary policy. Trump said the trade talks were productive. “The U.S. has made substantial progress in our trade talks with China on important structural issues including intellectual property protection, technology transfer, agriculture, services, currency, and many other issues,” he said in a Twitter posting on Sunday evening. Read how emerging markets are beholden to the yuan’s fate as trade deadline looms Elsewhere, Brent slipped toward $66 a barrel after Trump said prices were too high, while copper extended gains on the Chinese optimism. Gold held steady, and Newmont Mining climbed in the premarket on a hostile bid from rival Barrick Gold. The pound was little changed versus the euro as U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May pushed back the deadline for Parliament to vote on her Brexit deal. Here are some key events coming up: And these are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh