Positive developments in trade talks between the world’s two largest economies should boost riskier assets, according to Julian Brigden, managing partner at hedge-fund consultant Macro Intelligence 2 Partners. Julian Brigden The 53-year-old Wall Street veteran, who’s been mostly bearish on securities from developing nations since 2014, said extended U.S.-China negotiations are "slightly positive" for the asset class. Meantime, they will probably lead to a weaker dollar, supporting oil prices and other riskier securities. "This is the start of the next big dollar-down leg," he said, adding that Brazil’s real could be one asset to benefit. "It’s absolutely the time to buy risk." Brigden, who made a prescient bet against emerging-market equities within two days of their 2015 high, said he began advising hedge fund clients to go long risk assets at the beginning of the year. Developing-nation shares have rallied 9.7 percent during that span, while currencies from Russia to Chile and Colombia climbed against the dollar. Donald Trump, speaking Friday at the White House alongside Chinese Vice Premier Liu He and members of his own cabinet, said a March 1 deadline for higher tariffs may get pushed back a month or so if both sides make progress. Brigden said easing trade tensions coupled with a weaker dollar and a pause in the Federal Reserve’s tightening cycle may boost assets from the developing world. "The comparative period is January 2016, when Janet Yellen wobbled and backed away from hikes," he said. Samy Muaddi, a money manager at T. Rowe Price Group in Baltimore: Gorky Urquieta, a money manager at Neuberger Berman in Atlanta: Sonja Gibbs, senior director at Institute of International Finance in Washington: Lu Yu, senior emerging-market money manager at Allianz Global Investors: Kathryn Rooney Vera, head of research at Bulltick in Miami: Roberto Sanchez-Dahl, money manager at Manulife Asset Management in Boston: Michael Roche, strategist at Seaport Global Holdings in New York: Jim Craige, co-CIO of Stone Harbor Investment Partners in New York: Peter Cecchini, chief market strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York: — With assistance by Justin Villamil, Aline Oyamada, and Carmen Reinicke