Stocks in Asia were largely lower Thursday as disappointing manufacturing activity in China showcased continuing concerns about the global economic slowdown. Treasury yields dipped. Equities saw modest losses in Japan, Korea and China, while shares were flat in Hong Kong. After a stellar two-month rally for global shares, the bar for further gains may be high. U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer gave investors no incentive to bid up prices further on Wednesday, when he dialed back expectations for a sweeping trade deal with China. Nor did the latest monthly China manufacturing PMI, which indicated another contraction. The Australian dollar pared gains and the yen ticked higher. “We still need more expansionary credit and fiscal policy to be implemented to stabilize growth” in China, Betty Wang, senior China economist at ANZ, told Bloomberg TV. “The economy is still not in a good shape.” The dollar was little changed after Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell told lawmakers Wednesday that he’ll soon announce a plan to stop shrinking the central bank’s balance sheet, now around $4 trillion balance. The recent escalation in tensions between India and Pakistan adds to a list of concerns from trade talks to global growth. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan sounded ready to back away from the brink, using a televised address to call for talks with India so that “better sense should prevail.” Also in focus is the U.S.-North Korea summit in Hanoi featuring President Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un. Elsewhere, the pound held gains after the U.K. Parliament approved an amendment that sets down in writing the pledges Prime Minister Theresa May made Tuesday about a no-deal Brexit and a possible delay on the timing. Oil held gains after prices jumped by the most in almost a month as a plunge in U.S. stockpiles showed OPEC and its allies tightening global supplies. Here are some key events coming up: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Sophie Caronello, Sarah Ponczek, Reade Pickert, and Cormac Mullen