Follow @Brexit, sign up to our Brexit Bulletin, and tell us your Brexit story. Theresa May is trying stave off a rebellion that risks derailing her Brexit plans next week, as talks in Brussels make little progress. A vote in Parliament on Wednesday is shaping up to be a showdown for the prime minister. Brexit Bulletin: Drama and Delay Key Developments: The hardline European Research Group of MPs is risking there being no Brexit at all as a result of its unwillingness to compromise, according to David Percy, who leads a group of 100 Tory lawmakers who wrote to Theresa May warning they are willing to vote against the government to prevent a no-deal divorce. “Some of my colleagues have got to recognize the game they’ve thus far been playing is not going to end well for them and could potentially end with the delaying or perhaps even no Brexit which many of us have spent our parliamentary careers campaigning for,” David Percy told BBC Radio 4. Percy said that the Brexit Delivery Group, a "loosely aligned" caucus of MPs from both sides of the Brexit divide, has become increasingly frustrated at the "intransigence" of the ERG and will  act to stop a no-deal split. The ERG "are in total denial about the Parliamentary arithmetic," Percy said. “The majority of MPs want to deliver on Brexit, but a majority of them want to do it in a way that brings the country together.” Michel Barnier, the European Union’s chief Brexit negotiator, said he doesn’t rule-out a delay to the date Britain leaves the bloc, though the decision would require unanimity among European heads of government who “will ask what for and for how long.” Asked on Europe1 radio about the chances of a so-called Hard Brexit, Barnier said “today I am more worried than before, but I think there is still a chance to save this accord.” “Theresa May has to get a majority to approve this accord,” he said. “That’s the condition to go further." That chimes with private comments from European officials, who have indicated that they want to be sure there’s a majority in Parliament for any revisions to the deal before they gather leaders together again to sign it off. A summit is scheduled for March 21-22, just days before Brexit day.