Follow @Brexit, sign up to our Brexit Bulletin, and tell us your Brexit story. Prime Minister Theresa May is using a summit in Sharm el-Sheikh to make progress renegotiating her unpopular divorce agreement. At home, she faces a rebellion by members of her own party who want to force her to delay Brexit to avoid a no-deal. May pushed back against Donald Tusk’s suggestion that a delay in Brexit would be the "rational solution" to the current impasse. A delay in Article 50 won’t help to deliver Brexit and it is "within our grasp" to leave the EU with a deal on March 29, May told a press conference in Sharm el-Sheikh. “An extension to Article 50, a delay to this process doesn’t deliver a decision in Parliament, it doesn’t deliver a deal,” May said. “Any extension of Article 50 isn’t addressing the issue.” European Council President Donald Tusk said he discussed the possibility of an extension with May. Donald Tusk in Sharm el-Sheikh on Feb. 25. “I can say first of all that prime minister May and I discussed yesterday a lot of issues, including the legal and procedural context of a potential extension,” he said at a news conference. “For me, it’s absolutely clear that there is no majority in the House of Commons to approve a deal. We will face an alternative: a chaotic Brexit or extension. The less time there is until the 29th of March, the greater the likelihood of an extension.” He added: “And this is an objective fact, not our intention, not our plan – but an objective fact. I believe in the situation we are in, an extension would be a rational solution.” He ended by saying that May “ still believes that she is able to avoid this scenario.” But by his tone, he didn’t sound very convinced. Mujtaba Rahman, managing director at Eurasia Group, said the chances of Therea May forcing her Brexit deal through Parliament are rising, and now stand at about 65 percent. Rahman bases much of his analysis on a sense that a delayed Brexit, or the threat that the U.K. won’t exit the EU at all, is having “a chilling effect” on hardline Brexiteers in the European Research Group. Some accept privately that they will cave in, Rahman wrote in a note. Moreover, potential new legal advice from Attorney General Geoffrey Cox, suggesting the U.K. won’t be trapped in the backstop, may provide cover for the DUP to drop its opposition to the plan, Rahman said. However, at least one pro-Brexit Tory, Marcus Fysh, rejects such a scenario. When asked if the ERG is ready to back down, he said “the short answer is ’no’ and the longer answer is: when you read the terms of the Withdrawal Agreement, I couldn’t put my hand on my heart and agree to that and I am astonished that colleagues can.” European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and May agreed that they needed to get an agreement on changes to the Brexit agreement in time for a summit of EU leaders on March 21, an EU official said. The pair, who met on the margins of the summit, had a constructive meeting, the official said, adding that there’s been good progress on the deal to date. EU chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier will hold talks with U.K. Brexit negotiators in Brussels on Tuesday, the official said. Before his meeting with Theresa May, Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar appeared to suggest a no-deal is off the table for now. In remarks tweeted by the Irish Independent from the summit, he said: “What’s evident to me is absolutely no-one wants the U.K. to crash out with no deal, that’s a lose-lose-lose scenario for everyone. That gives me confidence, or a sense at least, that the UK will not crash out without a deal on March 29. We’ll either have a deal or have an extension.” That sums up why May wants to keep the threat of no-deal on the table. If there’s no danger, why should the EU move on the backstop? May met German Chancellor Angela Merkel for breakfast in Sharm el-Sheikh and the pair discussed Brexit, among other issues. During a 45-minute meeting over pastries, cheese and fruit, Merkel asked May about a British media report that the U.K. is considering a two-month technical extension to Article 50 to give more time to get the legislation through Parliament, according to a person familiar with the matter. May is said to have replied that she doesn’t want a delay, and is keen to get the deal done in time to leave the EU as planned on March 29. A British official said May believes delaying Brexit will not solve the issue but only postpone the moment when a decision must be made. The official said May also met Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, and will hold talks with Irish premier Leo Varadkar later. Cabinet minister Damian Hinds insisted the government would not make it official policy to pursue a no-deal Brexit. “We are not going to make no-deal government policy,” Hinds, the education secretary, told BBC Radio on Monday. May wants to keep the no-deal threat on the table as she thinks it will help get her unpopular divorce agreement through Parliament. But several ministers indicated on Friday they were ready to vote against her to prevent a cliff-edge departure -- joining with Labour members of Parliament to do so. May Raises the Stakes Before Brexit Showdown as EU Hatches PlotEU Is Said to Mull 21-Month Delay If May Can’t Get Brexit DoneBrexit Bulletin: One More Roll of the DiceTheresa May’s Brexit Delays Are an Expensive Scandal: Editorial — With assistance by Lin Noueihed, Dara Doyle, Jess Shankleman, and Kitty Donaldson