Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. A rally in shares of technology companies helped push the broader U.S. equity market up from the lows of the day. Treasuries fell for a third day and oil slumped. The Nasdaq 100 jumped as Amazon announce plans to open new grocery stores and Apple’s chief executive made positive comments, keeping the index on pace for its 10th consecutive week of gains. The S&P 500 has struggled to break though the key 2,800 price level after a rally of more than 10 percent in the first two months of the year. “People are looking for a catalyst for equities to move up,” said Erik Ristuben, the chief investment strategist at Russell Investments Management Co., said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. The psychological level of 2,800 continues to act as resistance for the S&P 500, a point that the benchmark has failed to breach four times in the past five months. This week alone, the index has traded above the round number three separate days, but has never successfully closed above it. Stocks weakened earlier after the Institute for Supply Management’s gauge of U.S. factories slumped to a two-year low. They had opened higher in the wake of gains posted overseas after positive economic data from China and prospects of a trade deal improved. Chinese shares outperformed as an increase in the Caixin manufacturing gauge and confirmation that MSCI Inc. will raise the weight of Chinese stocks in its global benchmarks buoyed sentiment. Treasuries are "fairly priced" on interest-rate expectations, says HSBC’s Daragh Maher. After a 16 percent surge from Christmas through the start of this week, MSCI’s gauge of global equities has tread water as investors await progress in U.S.-China trade negotiations. American officials are preparing a final deal that U.S. President Donald Trump and China President Xi Jinping could sign in weeks, people familiar with the matter said, even as a debate continues in Washington over whether to push Beijing for more concessions. Meanwhile, geopolitical concerns remain in the background, amid tensions between India and Pakistan and the failure of a summit between Kim Jong Un and Trump to achieve an agreement between the U.S. and North Korea on denuclearization. These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Robert Brand