Nigerians began voting in Africa’s biggest democracy in a tight presidential race between incumbent Muhammadu Buhari and pro-market multimillionaire Atiku Abubakar. While the polls officially opened at 8 a.m. on Saturday, some balloting stations suffered delays. Long lines formed early in the morning of people waiting to vote for parliament as well as presidential contenders. The front-runners are Buhari, who’s campaigned on an anti-corruption platform, and Abubakar, who’s promised to boost economic growth but is dogged by graft allegations. “l am here to vote for a better Nigeria,” 60-year-old Eziekiel Shobola said as he stood in line at a polling station in Lagos, the commercial capital. “I want somebody that will end the suffering in this country.” A man holds up an election themed wristwatch near campaign posters of Muhammadu Buhari and Atiku Abubakar in Lagos. The vote followed an 11th-hour postponement a week ago that the electoral commission said was due to logistical problems and not because of security or political issues. Just hours before the election started in Africa’s top oil producer, several explosions were heard in Maiduguri, the capital of the northeastern state of Borno where Islamist militants have been active for a decade. Borno Commissioner of Police Damian Chukwu denied there was an attack on the city. With potentially 73 million people voting, the election is the continent’s biggest-ever democratic exercise. Much will depend on turnout, which was less than 44 percent four years ago when Buhari became the first opposition candidate in the West African nation’s history to win power in what Barack Obama called a “historic step for Nigeria and Africa.” “This is a deciding moment for us in the country,” said Chinaka Daniels, who’d been waiting at a polling station in Abuja, the capital, since 5:30 a.m. “It’s an opportunity to exercise our rights and to vote in the right people.” Buhari, 76, and Abubakar, 72, are both northern Muslims in a country split roughly evenly between a Christian south and Islamic north. Yet their career paths are very different. Buhari is a former general who ruled the country briefly in the 1980s and morphed into a civilian politician who won on his fourth try for the presidency in 2015. Atiku, as Abubakar is widely known, has served as vice president and has 26 children and four wives. He has business interests ranging from oil and gas services to food manufacturing and a private university.    Both carry heavy baggage. Buhari and his ruling All Progressives Congress have faced sharp criticism for their handling of the economy. After his inauguration, Buhari took six months to form a cabinet. He then imposed capital controls as the naira currency came under pressure amid plunging revenue form oil, the country’s main export, and foreign investors fled. Nigeria’s economy was hit by its first contraction in a quarter century in 2016. The economy expanded 1.9 percent last year, the fastest since Buhari’s election. Yet Nigeria now has more extremely poor people, 87 million, than any other nation, according to the Brookings Institution, a Washington-based think tank. The United Nations expects its population to double to 410 million by 2050, overtaking everywhere bar India and China. Read more about Nigeria’s tough decision Buhari’s supporters paint him as a rarity in Nigeria: an honest politician who provides a sharp counterpart to Abubakar’s People’s Democratic Party that governed Nigeria for 16 years from the end of military rule in 1999. Buhari’s suspension of Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen, just weeks before Saturday’s presidential election, was criticized by the legal community, the U.S. and the European Union. Onnoghen, who’s pleaded not guilty to charges of false declaration of his assets, would probably have had the final say if the results faced a legal challenge, which some analysts think is inevitable. The president’s also generated controversy by saying that anyone who tries to rig the election “will do so at the expense of his own life.” The PDP said the remarks showed Nigeria risked becoming a dictatorship. Abubakar, by contrast, portrays himself as someone who knows how to get things done and his pro-market policies have won some favor among investors. In an interview last month, he said if elected, he would name a new central bank governor, float the naira and sell stakes in the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. Read about investors seeing gains if opposition wins Since Buhari came to office, Nigeria’s stock market has been the world’s worst performer, losing about half its value in dollar terms. Wall Street banks such as Citigroup Inc. say Nigerian equities and bonds will probably rally if Abubakar wins. But he has long been accused of using positions in government to enrich himself. A U.S. Senate report in 2010 concluded that Abubakar and one of his wives had wired $40 million of “suspect funds” into American accounts. Abubakar denies any wrongdoing and has never been indicted at home or abroad. Whoever wins will have to deal with widespread violence in the northeast where insurgents, some now affiliated to Islamic State, have been fighting to impose their version of shariah law. The conflict has claimed tens of thousands of lives and forced more than 2.5 million people in the Lake Chad region to flee their homes. The election campaign itself has been relatively peaceful, marked more by mudslinging than violence. Both sides accused each other of planning to rig the vote. Final results should be known within a few days after the close of the polls. — With assistance by Tope Alake, Solape Renner, Paul Wallace, and Michael Olukayode