Osram Licht AG’s supervisory and managing boards accepted a 3.4 billion euro ($3.8 billion) takeover bid from Bain Capital and Carlyle Group LP, ending the German lighting company’s relatively brief and at times contentious period as a standalone company. Bain and Carlyle are offering 35 euros a share, 21% more than the stock’s close on Tuesday, amid reports about the latest offer. The price is still 15% lower than its peak this year in February. They’ve put a minimum acceptance level of 70% on the deal, excluding shares owned by Osram, and the acceptance period will run until early September. “Following a careful review of the transaction offer, the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of Osram have come to the conclusion that it would be in the best interests of the company and in the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders to support the offer,” according to a company statement. "It would require real guts to turn down what Bain and Carlyle are dangling. Osram was already in a weak state when news about the potential bid first emerged in November."Bloomberg Opinion columnist Chris Hughes Siemens AG spun off what was a light bulb-making division in 2013 after which Osram Chief Executive Officer Olaf Berlien began to refocus on higher technology, sparking a bitter and public dispute over strategy. Bain and Carlyle’s purchase of Osram would add to the $51.6 billion in private equity buyouts of European companies announced this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Negotiations to buy Osram have moved slowly since they were first revealed in February. Funding has been a challenge as potential lenders raised concerns about future earnings forecasts for the company after Osram issued a string of profit warnings. The German company has struggled since it was spun off from Siemens. Berlien shifted Osram’s focus to high-tech specialized lighting and LED chips, although he’s failed to get a handle on weakening market demand as European car sales drop. He has also tried to branch out into new areas to attract revenue such as through the purchase of horticultural lighting maker Fluence.