Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. The last time French stocks hit a record high, Jacques Chirac was president, the Concorde’s future was in serious doubt after a crash near Charles de Gaulle Airport, and the country’s economy was growing at around 4%, a level not seen since. While the CAC 40 Index still needs to gain 23% to surpass its all-time peak set in 2000, in the waning days of the internet bubble, the benchmark is closing in on a 12-year high, driven by stellar performances this year from luxury titan LVMH and planemaker Airbus, both up nearly 50%. After outpacing the DAX, the FTSE 100, the IBEX and the FTSE MIB over the past 12 months, the CAC is back in fashion, in part because the index is more diverse than it used to be, with strong companies in several industries, says Matteo Brancolini, a fund manager at BPER Banca in Milan. LVMH, drinks maker Pernod Ricard, which this week touched a record high, and cosmetics giant L’Oreal are among the CAC 40 stocks that Brancolini says are “sexy.” The French index took a hit when the Internet bubble burst, and companies such as Orange and Vivendi never really recovered. Then came the financial crisis, which hammered France’s banks. That’s another sector that is still struggling. In early July 2007, before the U.S. subprime storm, the sector, banks and insurers accounted for about 21% of the CAC’s weight, making finance the biggest sector. Today it accounts for only about 10%, while the industrial and consumer discretionary sectors each represent about a fifth of the CAC now. Since the beginning of 2008, Societe Generale shares have lost three quarters of their value while LVMH has quintupled. SocGen had a bigger market value than LVMH before the crisis; now, LVMH at 193 billion euros is 10 times larger. “The banks’ weight on the index became bigger and bigger and then collapsed with the financial crisis,” Cedric Ozazman, head of investment and portfolio management at Reyl & Cie. in Geneva. “That’s the main reason for the CAC’s underperformance.” Luxury has become the index’s biggest growth engine. Their growing weight in France’s equity benchmark has paid off in the past year as luxury-goods makers showed resilience amid global trade tensions. However, the CAC could quickly lose its glitter again if economic growth further slows in China, or if Hong Kong’s political turmoil lasts. Both are major markets for the sector. But this year’s 19% gain in the CAC also reflects good breadth, according to Brancolini. Besides Airbus and LVMH, top gainers include technology consultant Atos, software maker Dassault Systemes and industrial companies Legrand and Schneider Electric. “France has cool stocks and the CAC 40 is the most ‘beautiful’ index in Europe,” Brancolini says. “While Germany’s DAX is full of cyclicals and industrials, which are slowing down, and Italy’s FTSE MIB has many banks, the CAC is a well balanced index, with everything from luxury and utilities to pharma, industrials, food and banks too.” The index’s developments mirror a wider dynamic between local players, which lost ground over the years, and global companies like LVMH and L’Oreal, which have been able to rely on the demographic trends in regions such as China and the U.S. for growth, Ozazman says.BNP Paribas and Societe Generale may have a presence in the U.S. and other countries but their performance is still strongly linked to France, where economic growth is slower, he says. Now, with the CAC around 5,621, traders are watching the 2018 peak of 5,640. A move above that level would put the index at the highest since late 2007, before the crisis hit fully. The all-time closing high of 6,922.33 from 2000 still seems like a long way off. Of course, looking only at the CAC’s price change doesn’t tell the whole story for investors. Including dividends, the index has returned 47% since the peak. That works out to about 2.1% a year. In the meantime, Euro Stoxx 50 futures are trading little changed ahead of the open. SECTORS IN FOCUS TODAY: COMMENT: COMPANY NEWS AND M&A: NOTES FROM THE SELL SIDE: TECHNICAL OUTLOOK for Stoxx 600 index: TECHNICAL OUTLOOK for Euro Stoxx 50 index: MAIN RESEARCH AND RATING CHANGES:UPGRADES: DOWNGRADES: INITIATIONS: MARKETS: ECONOMIC DATA (All times CET): * For a daily wrap on developments in European equity capital markets, click here — With assistance by Michael Msika