The boundary between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, long the scene of tense checkpoints and violent protest, is once again caught up in a bitter division. The U.K.’s ability to agree to a trade deal with the European Union by the end of 2020 may hinge on the historically fraught border, which marks the limits of EU territory for the first time following the U.K.’s departure from the bloc on Jan. 31. The plan to ensure there’s no need for a physical frontier dividing the island of Ireland has been coming under renewed strain. When the U.K. left the EU, it agreed that a new type of boundary would emerge not on land, but in the Irish Sea, though it set many details aside to be clarified later. The plan, worked out between the EU and U.K. in October 2019, would allow Northern Ireland to remain part of the U.K.’s customs regime, though it would also apply EU taxes and tariffs on goods, ensuring the right duties were paid on those destined for the EU. Moreover, Northern Ireland would have to stick with many of the rules governing the EU’s single market, including those covering areas such as food safety and state aid. Northern Ireland keeps a foot in both systems after Brexit   The U.K. has changed its position, publishing plans in September that would allow ministers to over-ride parts of the withdrawal agreement and decide which goods crossing from Great Britain to Northern Ireland would be liable for tariffs, should a wider trade deal not be reached with the EU. The British government admits this would contravene international law, and EU leaders have responded angrily that the move “undermines trust.” There’s still a chance that the U.K. could end the transition period on Dec. 31 with no agreement on its future relationship with the EU. Read More: Why Johnson’s Britain Is Turning ‘Rogue State’ Over Brexit: Q&A That’s not clear. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has long promised that the U.K. won’t erect border posts, effectively daring Ireland and the EU to set up customs infrastructure on the frontier if they insist on checks. No deal would mean tariffs — trade between the U.K. and the EU would be covered by basic World Trade Organization rules, including a raft of duties. No one knows how it would work. U.K. supermarket chain J Sainsbury Plc warned in November that its shops in Northern Ireland might have to offer a significantly reduced range of products in January if no trade deal is reached with the EU. The Irish would face a dilemma in the event of a no-deal Brexit if the U.K. follows through with its plan: Either they agree to reinstate the border or run the risk of being booted out of the European single market for failing to protect its flank. That’s because without border checks, Northern Ireland could be used as a so-called back door into the EU. Brazilian beef, for example, could be shipped to Belfast, moved across the open border and sent seamlessly on to the rest of the EU. U.S. President-elect Joe Biden warned Johnson in November that any future U.S.-U.K. trade deal would be contingent on preserving the peace process in Northern Ireland, a position shared by House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi. It meanders through countryside for some 310 miles (499 kilometers), dividing rivers, fields and even some houses; a change in road signs and accepted currency is pretty much the only indication that a person has moved from one country to another. The island was partitioned in 1921, a division cemented by a peace agreement between the British government and Irish rebels seeking independence. As part of the deal, Northern Ireland, where the population is majority Protestant, remained part of the U.K. with England, Scotland and Wales. The mostly Catholic southern part of the island became the Irish Free State, before formally becoming a republic in 1949. It’s unlikely anytime soon. Nearly a century after partition, a majority in Northern Ireland want to remain part of the U.K. Still, the fact that the possibility is being openly discussed again is testament to the forces unleashed by Brexit. Under a provision of the Good Friday accord, a so-called border poll on Irish unification could only take place if the U.K. government considers such a referendum would likely be passed. Irish Deputy Prime Minister Leo Varadkar has warned that a no-deal Brexit could eventually stir sentiment for a united Ireland — an analysis rejected by unionist parties in the region. Customs and security checks would likely hurt the economy on both sides of the border, and perhaps offer a daily reminder of British rule of Northern Ireland. The province has been at peace for about two decades, and there’s no sign that groups opposed to the region’s peace process have the capacity to mount a sustained and wide-ranging campaign of violence anymore. Yet, tensions continue to simmer.